
----------------------------------------
2026-04-06
----------------------------------------

Nudity as original sin is a stupid, idiotic and dumb. The Bible just gets worse from there. Declaring mas****tion a sin is anti-health. It is mental abuse. Christianity is first and foremost mental abuse starting with nudity as a sin. 

Down with Christianity.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=yG8V...
Spoke too soon, meh. You can checkout any time you like but you can never leave. Spying spy spies ever more. Next level Edgar Allen Poe terror. 

F me
I was going to say, "Worry, be sexy." However, that seemed way too obvious. Happy requires more work. :^)
Worry, be happy!
MGOs are monitored for dysfunction of oppression and abuse. Size 30 governments are easily managed and even broken up. Trade privileges are the default mechanism to discourage and encourage treatment of MGO members.
MGOs allow for our hierarchy human nature to exist in the environment  closest to us, the MGO. Thus satisfying our hierarchy nature. Beyond that there is no allowed hierarchy.
Irreni is designed with fixed size mesh nodes, MGOs of size thirty. An MGO can choose any 30 person design, including hierarchy. Hierarchy that is tiny and fixed size can be stable. So okay.
Second law of social engineering: human nature defaults to hierarchy as a non design. 

Therefore social engineering is always at odds with human nature.
First law of social engineering: any system built on hierarchy will fail at larger scales due to corruption concentrating with the few at the top.

Therefore scalable social systems cannot be built on hierarchy.
Good news, I have already designed an infinitely scalable society: mesh. So that just means we all need to join MGOs and we are good. No scale is too large.

Irreni.social
We need to move beyond politics to social engineering. Success becomes failure is a design of scale failure. We need to view society as one of design and engineering and not  politics and policy.
The military and financial success of the US today can never be governed lawfully, only by corruption. Both need to be 100% dismantled to nothing so that Amercans can become  just that. Americans.
The solution for the US and the world is too start over. Limit the scope of success.

Re-federalize into 10 or so Unions
Dismantle the military
Dismantle the dollar
Dismantle nukes
The new 10 or so new Unions join the UN as least power countries, not super power.
One simple statement that points in the direction of solution is that the US has too much money both at home and within the world. Financial success has brought its ruin. World ruin. The US was not designed to control the world financial markets of 8 billion people. Big ask for a Constitution.
Success becomes failure is a design statement. The US Constitution was designed for 10 million people and 13 States. It was not designed for 340 million people and the role today as the world's only Super Power of world order maker. Not even close.
The success of the civil war removes a foundational power: States Supremacy. 

The US becoming a Super Power as success after WWII created an oversized Federal Gov that the States were mere shadows of. It was only a matter of time after that when the paltry 500 elected officials would be corrupted.
when it removed that check after the Civil War declaring States could not secede or be overthrown. If States could secede then the Union would have been multiple Unions long ago. Thus neutering Fed power. The system of checks and balances has failed.
Success becomes failure is the trend. The Constitution was designed for week Federal government. Ergo the US Bank and Assumption Act of 1789 were seen as corruption. The States are the foundation the Constitution was built upon, the ultimate check. The US failed as a country when it removed that
The US has always been in crisis. Starting with the Assumption Act , Civil War, Robber Barons, Yellow Journalism, Super Power status, Vietnam War, Watergate, Cold War, and today.
Social Engineering lesson: one variable. The analysis here just focuses on a written Constitution as a one variable cause for Trump. Trump is the simple one variable failure. Don't do this, that's the lesson

We are going to the Moon to declare ownership. For billionaires. There is nothing romantic or aspirational behind it. Just more greed.

And yes, I'm fun at parties. Thanks for asking. ;/
----------------------------------------
2026-04-06
----------------------------------------

This book, along with Dune, really hit home for me in the 70s that hierarchy is a dead end. Hierarchy is a pyramid of power where the larger it gets the more corrupt it gets. Many tipping points illustrated such as indefinite lifespans and sequestered power.
Know denial. No your enemy.
/sarcasm on
So, I guess the Trump account just posted an English version of Allah Akbar? 

I'm, that's not how that goes. 

Here's how its done: /sarcasm off

www.youtube.com/watch?v=sbLb...
Ummm, aliens have a city in the middle of that sea. 

¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Stone ages. Iran literally manufactures steel.
I don't believe any of the reporting about the aircraft shot down.

I don't need too. It is irrelevant.
Easter reminder that Chritians killed neurodivergent people like me since forever because we were seen as demons, devils and possessed. 

Screw your Christianity.
The US military isn't defending us. What it us doing is ra*ing a girl as birth control. Total nonsense. 

No respect. None. F off.

I would expect even defending the US to behave with dignity for life and not terrorizing killing civilians.

Unlike the pro-life crowd I demand dignity always.
My actual follower count increased from 73 to 79. The 469 my profile shows includes bots and other blocks. Bluesky needs to remove blocks from follower count. 

Welcome 6 new followers!
Ooof, ensh*tification inbound. Got my first friction confirmation dialog. Click on a third party link and you now get, "You are leaving this site" bs.

Fu*k off.
My timeline is me competing in a "Best Decorated Timeline' contest here on Bluesky that doesn't exist. :()
Am in an art mood today. Really love my Bluesky art feed I built. Gonna miss it once the VC owners ensh*tify this for money. Enjoy it while it lasts.
'Hair peace"

We are in Lincoln's "Some of the people all of the time" fooling by Murdoch's et al billionaire 3 decades propaganda campaign.

What's new is pop. dist.  is now 55% of Congress is rep. by few some people.

We need courage to right the ship and fairly allocate reps without regard to State borders.
"My cat ate my homework? Mmmmm"
Pssst, the US is falling behind. A lot.
Oh, my favorite color: all of them. My brain is very LGBTQ+ rainbow blended. :)
Here is one in reduced color. Gives a candle light vibe of a costume party.
Awesome work. Changing any of the color settings create yet another mood. Had to settle on one.
----------------------------------------
2026-04-05
----------------------------------------

There is something me, I mean weird, going on with Discover feed. Got a bunch of pet death posts last week. Last two days a ton of food posts giving me Facebook 2012 vibes. 

If this is some kinda best "weird" contest then I win. Thems the rules. Now give me some shoe leather.

🧚‍♀️
if you see this show the energy you bring to bluesky
very eary
Being high functioning neurodivergent throws people. My neighbor is annoyed  that I only pick up my mail once a month. I pick up my mail when I have the mental capacity. He can't square my being a software engineer and unable to do simple things. I told him day one I was neurodivergent. 

¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Revolution is irresponsible destruction without a plan. We live in a global economy now and burning down the US would kill millions if not billions of non-Americans.

Irreni World Scale is a plan. It doesn't overthrow current government. Irreni dissolves it.

Join and MGO today!
irreni.social
Shipping companies have been buying oil on 5 year futures for decades precisely to compensate for temporary spikes like war.

So why are are gas prices at the pump spiking in real time?

For the same reason prices spiked during Covid.

Price gouging.
Isn't a helicopter a flying car? 

What's stopping us from flying cars is not flying tech. It is "roadway" politics in air.
Irreni is advanced social engineering. Bluesky is child's play built on simple, real-time intuition like Likes. 

If you want to get serious about society building then join an MGO today!
Social media needs to containerize like Irenni World Scale. The size of large projects such as managing climate change is a function of project skill. 

ATproto is an intuition of Jay's. Kudos. However, it lacks full containerization. It simply provides boundaries of arbitrary purpose quality.
Projects within Irreni nest without limit. This represents the pallets and boxes nesting within the containers on container ships. 

Project contracts define necessary project dependencies required to exist.
Contract votes are banked, not cast. When a project in Irreni is accepted then all supporting voters become members. Members leaving means a vote is rescinded. Each contract is required to set a number of minimum members to exist. Further, project contracts must be renewed every 5 years or less.
Bluesky should allow people to group hashtags and follow them as a gestalt. 

What's missing from hastags is purpose moderation like Reddit subreddits. 

In Irreni projects are moderated by contracts. Contracts are written and approved by direct democracy voting of its project supporters.
Containerizing  MGO posts creates quality of
30 people or not allowing  ignoring 30 people in one ignore. 

This does not address purpose. 

Purpose is addressed as projects. MGO posts must be assigned project relevance. Think hashtags. For example, my projects are art and social engineering.
MGOs allow people to "sh*t post" all day long within that 30 people group, or container. 

The MGO then synthesize user posts to container posts. How is MGO specific. Like simply voting on user posts. 

Number of MGO posts allowed per day are fixed to a maximum. This containerizes those posts.
The defining importance of information is twofold:
1. Quality of trust
2. Quality of purpose

Social trust and purpose require practice.

In Irreni it is only within a fixed group of 30 people that posts we make on Bluesky are allowed. 

These groups are called micro governing g organizations, MGOs.
So, what would a package for social media posts look like? 

Well Bluesky already defines one package: language. Starter packs define a package. 

These packages though don't serve a scale purpose like containers do. 

What is containerization for social interaction?
Bluesky and all of social media in 2026 is shipping media posts as was cargo pre-container ships. Primitive.  Algorithms for shipping social media posts are analogous to algorithms used to load container ships. For example, heavy stuff needs evenly distributed as load.
Inside a container on a container ship is further containerization. Pallets are used and loaded by forklifts inside a container. Pallets themselves are typically loaded with boxes.
Intuitively user base being a fixed size is analogous to a cargo ship. Prior to container ships each and every item was hand carried onto a cargo ship. Efficiency is greatly increased with containers of fixed size. Bluesky is shipping micro blog posts to its users.
Irenni World Scale is social engineering that scales infinitely. 

Success becomes failure is a design constraint.

In Irreni a "Bluesky user base" is fixed at size 30. Engagement beyond size 30 is heavily filtered. 

The algorithm behind size 30 is complicated.
A good rule of thumb when reading about statistics regarding scale is that if the stat is being discussed in isolation then it can be ignored.
Yogi Berra observed the "success becomes your failure" effect long before the Internet:

"A  New York Restaurant is so busy  with lines around the block such that people don't go there any more."
Your success becomes your failure is a good razor for traffic success metrics. 

Over the last year accounts I follow have bemoaned having far less engagement. This is a problem of scale. As the user base grows the percentage of a single account posts being viewed goes down in discover feeds.
Forking Bluesky as Blacksky did is an ATproto objective so measuring Bluesky user base seems dishonest and not the view of the big picture of open platform objectives.

How many people went to Blacksky?
----------------------------------------
2026-04-04
----------------------------------------

Remember, we lost three fighter jets last year when they just fell off the aircraft carrier.

Iran might not have done anything.
Between his "war spending prohibits daycare spending" and "only surrounds himself with losers" in the same week, one has to wonder which stings worse for MAGA? 

Yeah, you're right. Losers. Trump supporters have no empathy. Arguably daycare is about themselves, but still.
Consevative headlines review.

For two days now, it's been a blackout on Trump saying he likes to surround himself with losers so that his success stories are the only ones. Not even the usual, "he was only joking."
Elon Mush -> SpaceX -> NASA

Wake up
How long before people on Bluesky realize it is the Epstein class behind these manned Moon missions?
The US military is committing war crimes bombing schools. They have yet to disobey an un-Constitutional order. I have 0 f's to give about what General gets fired.  None.
They should all be resigning.
"Yellow is blue cool hattitude*
----------------------------------------
2026-04-03
----------------------------------------

The Supreme Court should have never taken up birthright citizenship. Their opinion should be one sentence.

If you want to end birthright citizenship then you need to pass an Amendment just as an Amendment established it.

Some days you wake and and go, "I want Pop Tarts". Cherry today.
Pillage, verb: 1. to strip ruthlessly of money or goods by open violence, as in war; plunder. 

We need to bring back the use of pillage. It fits the T admin to the T. We are pillaging Venezuela.
Kegsbreathe reading the poetry of Psalms to soldiers in order to romance slaughter is another example of an attempt to romance appeal. It's a terrible attempt because the Bible is not common culture romance. It just sounds weird. Cthulu type weird.
NASA weaponizing our common romantic nature for approval of billionaire s**t is nothing new. Just not used today in a click bait anger world.

"These are the times that try men's souls. The Sunshine soldier..."

War in 1942 was romanced in order to sell war bonds. 

Today, we just get click bait.
"Hattitude swap perspective"
Easter as a public holiday is yet another example of why anti-theists like me exist. 

It is not about your religion.

It is about your religion being imposed by law.
Blusky's retort complaints to future adding ads or other commercialization will be, "atproto is open source, build your own " /snicker
At some point, there will be more Presidential Executive orders argued before the Supreme Court each year than laws from all 50 States combined. Because Democracy is dead.

Know denial. No your enemy.
We, the taxpayers, are paying for rich people and corporations  to begin lay claim to Lunar real estate. And we also pay for them to build the moon, for them. With our tax dollars .

No denial. Know your enemy.
My family keeps asking: Why are we going to the moon? Why the long gap from 1972?

Space race. The first was with the Soviet Union over military strength. The Soviet Union quit, so did we. 

This space race is over property rights and who owns the moon. China, India, and Japan all Lunar programs.
JavaScript, mmm, no thanks. Hard pass. It's debatable whether casual users can write PHP but it is proven they can't understand JavaScript, DOM, etc. 

But I can see the appeal to use the language of the browser that millions of paid professionals use daily.
blog.cloudflare.com/emdash-wordp...
----------------------------------------
2026-04-02
----------------------------------------

Trump just sh*tting out executive orders at a rate he wants and the result being lawsuits in front of the Supreme Court is a dead Democracy. Another suit will be needed for his mail in ballot EO with SSN screening by the post office and withholding funds/

Ban EOs. Ban Pardons.
Why are we going to the Moon? 

"China Is Going to the Moon by 2030. "

Yes, if you said "real estate" as in "who owns the real estate" then you win the moon cheese prize. :)
Trump's latest executive order withholds funding allocated by Congress. That's un-Constitutional. The Blue States need to start taking this s**t serious. They need to respond by stating they will withhold 1.5 times that amount in Federal taxes permanently to build those fund services.
There is nothing in the Constitution prohibiting States from forming coalitions and joint projects.
If Trump sets up a system to screen US mail by SSN you know it will by used for more than just ballots. 

It is time for Blue States to meet the times and form a new Union.
United  Blue States. Trump seems to think the Feds withholding funds is a one-way power. Blue States need to institute their separate and very unequal postal service, CDC, etc. F*** Trump's threats to withhold funds. Just ignore the Feds and withhold their taxes. What are the Feds going to do, cry?
"A painting of painters painting moving canvases."
----------------------------------------
2026-04-01
----------------------------------------

"See fewer Shorts" on YouTube is the "close door" elevator button of the Internet.
"Investors want a return on their investment."

Epitaph of Bluesky
The billionaires have captured the US government completey. Fini.

Know denial. No your enemy.
Voting for the lesser of two evils is not voting to fix or improve things. Only voting for a rate of decay.
Voting is the opium of the masses. Lulls them into thinking the masses have power when in fact they do not.
The US will never ban Earth destroying tech. Because we are a failed State. Failed States are run by cabals that power above all else.

It doesn't matter to cabal rulers that their power could easily destroy Earth, is destroying Earth.
The US needs to permanently ban and destroy all atomic and nuclear weapons. It needs to ban AI for the same reason. AI has Earth destroying capability.
When I was growing up we worried about mushroom clouds. As Einstein said, World War 4 will be fought with sticks and stones. 

And yet we never banned nuclear and atomic weapons. An Earth suicide is not a defense strategy. Better to fall as a country.
4. Cybernetics as genetic engineering. Again, the rich reserve the superior capabilities to themselves. 
5. Intelligence separation. The intelligent are recruited to Mars or some Elysium orbiting station. 
6. Eugenics. One of the originals from the 19th century.
Sci-fi has for decades predicted many tipping  points that need to be guarded against.

1. Genetic engineering. The rich will restrict this to themselves. Superior abilities and indefinite lifespans.
2. AI singularity where it gains conciousness.
3. Environmental collapse. Dune sand world is here.
Given how unserious the US is about its nuclear arsenal while at the same time literally creating the sci-fi genre to be serious is reflected in Weir's comment on Star Trek.

He just wants pulp fiction, sword and sandals tittalation .

That's as American as it gets. No thinking allowed.
Think about it. The US has yet to pass a Constitutional Amendment banning atomic and nuclear weapons. Sci-fi was literally created out of thin air as a response to the A bombs catching us unprepared. Yet, we are still equally unprepared today. 

Trump wants to nuke. Who's going to stop him?
Sci-fi exists to explore boundaries where reality hasn't gone before. Sadly, the predictions and remedies have all been equally  ignored. People watch the Terminator movies only as pulp fiction and not as AI warnings. Same with the Matrix movies.
Sci-fi has always had its "romance novel", pulp fiction market. Kurt Vonnegut poked fun of this in "Slaughter  House Five". The book was initially classified as sci-fi, which he objected to.

Cybernetics where humans are part machine is explored with the Borg and its hive mind. Then there is Data.
Star Trek and science fiction as a genre were established to talk about and propose morals and ethics about world changing tech like the A bomb in 1945 before they happen.

For example, no money. No capitalism. 
Seems to me it doesn't get more political than that, especially in the US.
Hattitude: "You're the one who always forgets the sunscreen."
----------------------------------------
2026-03-31
----------------------------------------


19 of the 21 terrorists responsible for 9/11 were from Saudi Arabia, not Iraq. Not only did we not declare war on Saudi Arabia, the Saudis were one of the only people allowed to fly on 9/11 after all flights were grounded.
1. We funded Osama Bin Laden
2. We funded both sides in Syria
3. We funded Saddam Hussein.

There is a photo of Donald Rumsfield shaking hands with Saddam.
Maine is your mild destination. :)
So I guess Graham Platner is polling strong among MAGA demographics. I guess we know what the DNC is going to do then for 2028. Money always talks.
Every year I have to remember Maine State law shuts down businesses on Easter.

¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Detail, or "Dee Tail!"


----------------------------------------
2026-03-30
----------------------------------------

Bee Cause
Opted for B&W on phone to keep icon colors from clashing.
Nice phone background.


"There is every reason to believe that Democrats are going to over perform in the midterms and yet their approval ratings are incredibly low." -Sam Seder

This is what happens when you vote the lesser two evils. You just get evil.

Voting is not working. Democracy is therefore dead.
You know you are getting old when...

You look up a movie time for Project Hail Mary and then see the run time is 2H43M and go, nope. Will wait to stream and split in 2 sessions.
My feed just now. I don't but NASA building a "gateway to Mars" with an April manned Moon orbit just feels like a society disaster of priorities.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-29
----------------------------------------

Love to see all the No Kings posts.
I first joined Twitter during the Ferguson protests because People on Twitter posted live stream links to such things. 

Getting live coverage from people was awesome. I had hopes for Bluesky such things would exist but have yet to find them manifest. Perhaps because terrorism is too much a risk?

"Our friends at iFixit tore down the Neo and found it to be the most repairable MacBook since the 2012 unibody model. A screwed in battery, and modules for many of the individual components including the USB ports and headphone jack make it fairly simple to replace individual components."
This is based on OnlyOffice in Russia vs Libre Office in Germany. 

From Reddit: "I prefer OnlyOffice over Libre. OpenOffice is like MS Office freshly installed, without having to tweak the layout. It’s just what I am use to. Both will do what you want. "
tech.eu/2026/03/27/e...
Sci-fi has long raised the alarm on the rich confining genetic engineering.

There is a 2002 TV show called "Firefly" where the Tam family had their children engineered. 

How to defeat the rich? Mesh society. Hierarchy has to be destroyed before the rich obtain genetic engineering superiority.
In solidarity with #nokings, did you know we are running out the clock on Monarchy? 

What's the clock? Generic engineering. 

Once the rich obtain genetic engineering that makes them superior and the opposite of Trump then it is game over. 

The rich will become "like gods".
The Platnar, Mills, and Collins ads are all worse than a Kid Rock song. Way worse. I won't vote for someone who tortures us.

Bleach
We don't need to eat the rich. We have computers now. We just need to crash there accounts. Zero out all their money instantly.

No beheading necessary.
I've seen estimates that the wealthy have between 50-70 trillion dollars. 

I mean, if we really wanted to keep Democracy limping along then we would zero that out. Erase that 50-70 trillion and make the remaining money valuable. 

But, uh, you aren't going to hear the rich promote that.
Irreni World Scale has been designed as a side-by-side society with other societies. This is how it dissolves. 

So if one is looking for what to do after protesting then I recommend joining a Mesh node. 

irreni.social
Revolution has always been irresponsible. Revolution destroys what is without a replacement system in place.

The US needs to be dissolved slowly, over time. Over multiple generations. 

That's the only responsible way to replace it without killing millions and maybe billions of people.
The US is the Titanic sinking. Voting is just musical chairs about who gets to be last on the high end of the ship.

Denial that corruption has sunk the US enables more corruption.
Mesh society has no hierarchy. 

Mesh only grows horizontally. Each mesh node is the same fixed size, in Irreni that size is 30. A mesh node is sovereign much the same as nations are today. 

Meshes group by projects. That's it.
The fundamental flaw with Democracy is the fundamental flaw of all hierarchy and patriarchy. 

As hierarchy grows then growing money and power concentrate at the top. The top then is overrun by corruption. 

This is what it means to say absolute power corrupts absolutely. 

Democracy must go.
I was reading the analysis of Congress neutering itself by abdicating responsibilities in the 80s. The Raygun years saw the Democrats vote across party lines more times than any other Presidency  to "deregulate*" for incumbency. 

*deregulation is abdication. 

"Not my responsibility"
How is a 90% incumbency rate possible. This is a well studied question in politics. 

Most notably, Congress avoids the limelight by abdicating all responsibilities to the Executive and Judicial branch. Out of sight out of mind is how 90% incumbency prevails. 

Congress has neutered itself.
In the Federalist papers Madison points out that the best we can do is good government, never great. 

Why? Because there is always a loser in a lawsuit. This translates into always being losers in voting priorities. 

This should make a 90% incumbency rate impossible.
Think about what term limits is really saying. 

If our government were not overrun with corruption then we'd be voting out the 10% approval politicians 90% of the time. All term limits does is create a facade of voting people out while doing nothing about corruption of 90% incumbency.
If one triages Democracy looking for the worst wounds to treat first then one of the worst is:

90% incumbency with 10% approval.

If the incumbency rate deviates from the approval rating then something is wrong. 90/10 is a grave wound.
Democracy is irrevocably dead when legislatprs can become rich. End of the line. 

Every single US legislator is rich. AOC has a million dollar flat in Manhattan. 

The US Federal gov is irrevocably corrupt just by lavish salaries, health care, travel and expense accounts alone. Before trading.
It is not just Trump that chickens out. Congress is far worse.

We've fought this "insider trading" battle before. The history of Congress paying themselves lavish salaries with expense accounts is exactly the same.
Congress has also pawned off its responsibilities to the Supreme Court. 

When Roe V. Wade was passed Blackmun in an interview said it should be temporary until Congress passed legislation. He said that once Congress passed it the Supreme Court would honor it.
Congress has been pawning off their job to the Executive branch going on 80 years. The history of this is well documented. 

The apex of this was during Raygun with contraceptives. Congress passed a law giving the President the power to decide if foreign health aid would include contraception.
Checks and balances started failing immediately after WWII.  The Democrats after FDR realized that if the President took all the credit or the blame then they could have 90% incumbency. 

Thus began the strategy of abdicating responsibility by passing laws giving the President Congress' power.
One of the many reasons I peg Democracy died in 1980. Raygun stole the election by collaborating with, check notes, Iran, to withhold releasing the hostages until after the election. Tip the scales.
If one reads American History the first attempt to overthrow the US government by corruption was in 1789. The Monarchists pushed for the Debt Assumption Act as well as the US Bank. Nothing encourages corruption like debt and banking. Debt was passed, banking was not. We've struggled ever since.
The history of this starts after WWII. The US went from the Great Depression to superpower and rich country in a single generation. In Silicon Valley this is called your success becomes your failure. In short, the checks and balances were only designed for a small, weak federal government.
This level of corruption cannot be undone.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-28
----------------------------------------

We are throwing good money after bad by believing we can save US Democracy. It is easily provable it is beyond repair. 

Corruption has reached a tipping point of no return. 

There is no way to reverse corruption now. 

This is why I started working on Mesh society, in 1980.

:)
irreni.social
Eastern philosophy teaches one to be dispassionate as a default position. Clear minded. Only entangle passions where one has control and action. 

Sam Harris framing belief as all or nothing is just really, really sad.
Democracy died in 1980. If someone isn't paying attention correctly then they won't admit it until years, decades, and even centuries later. Those of us paying attention correctly get labeled as cynics as lazy thinking.
Buddhism and Taoism teaches one how to pay attention. Pay attention to what matters and what one has control over. Pay attention to action and not words. 

We only have so much empathy. Pay attention to the wrong things and empathy is wasted. 

For example, Democracy died in 1980.
Conservatism is defined by fear. It is a terrible way to live and a relentless master. Conservatives then act out on those fears believing they can control what the can't. Like bullying immigrants,  LGBTQ+, and pretty much everyone. They bully because the fear. Fear is the great mind killer.
The Buddhist version would be,

"I strive  to understand how to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference. "

Call this the Cynics prayer. Cynicism comes in two parts:

1. what's important
2. confidence
People get stressed out and bogged down by worrying about things they have no control over. The Serenity Prayer is a Buddhist derivative:

"God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference. "
Sam Harris is a perplexing individual. I studied Buddhism. 

The practice taught is to withhold emotional attachment unless absolutely needed. The default position is "I don't know". This leaves your mind wide open. Being attached to only those things that I deal with in my life is liberating.
Q. Did Epstein kill himself? 
A. I don't know.

I haven't dug into the evidence. Occam's razor is Trump lies and this is a Trump administration claim. Given that then the 0% confidence answer is No. I don't have to decide for any life choice so I default to I don't know.
Take Trump for example. If one can verify something he says by other sources then confidence goes up. Plus, there is always the Null position. Occam's razor is one such Null position. Finally, there is relevance. If no decision is required then claims can be ignored.
"If you always believe people lie to you then you'll believe anything." -Sam Harris

First, this is puzzling considering Sam preaches free will doesn't exist. Second that's not how cynicism works. Take it from a cynic. Fuzzy Logic prevails. Claims are given confidence from 0-100% true.
We are insane today.

We demand new social changes to roll out nationwide day one and produce instant results.
Mesh society requires all social change to climb the magnitude ladder: 100, 1000, 10000, 100000, etc.

Each step of the ladder takes years. 

We need to divorce ourselves of instant gratification. Effective social change will take generations.
Why are we reluctant to enact social change?

I'll tell you why: we put the cart before the horse. We want Medicare for All without first testing it at a smaller scale. The ACA was rolled out nationally day one.

Exact opposite of how to make effective social change.
Why are we naive in our analysis? 

I'll tell you why: it's taboo to require society to change behavior.

Ergo replacing gas cars with EV is minimal social change.

Bad news. Our social habits are atrocious. Trying to manage climate change while preserving the status quo is never going to work.
I have seen futurist writing about whole society planning. 

For example, going all in on everyone living in large cities. This would greatly reduce transportation needs. Everything gets consolidated like water supply and sewage. 

No cars allowed in big cities, public transportation exclusively.
Here's a question we never ask because we are not serious about the climate.

Which would have a greater impact:
1. Remote work only.
2. Replace gas with EV cars?

Remember the pandemic photos of empty streets?

The point is we are naive in our solutions because we are naive in our analysis.
I mean I realize we have the dumbest people running this government, but we do need to consider electrical energy price tax to pay for roads. 

How to do that without a dedicated vehicle electrical grid? 

And battery disposal? 

The US just dumps its gas car,  lead battery waste into Mexico.
The saying goes the more you know the more you know you don't know.

In social studies this is stated as a feedback loop. My journey redesigning society made me realize that omly whole Earth AI simulation will do. Environmental impact studies are woefully insufficient. And easily rigged.
If people are buying bigger cars because enegy is cheap, then the total environment impact includes tires and road wear. Concrete and rubber are env toxins. 

This is why we need a planet Earth simulation AI. Input billions of such variables.

Back in the day, we'd say robbing Peter to pay Paul.
As an inventor of mesh society, simulating one variable like gas prices is a sure sign of someone uneducated.

Irreni requires a world AI. This is a simulation AI, not LLM. Any change such as EV should be simulated against billions of variables.

Do that and I'll take you seriously.

Irreni.social
Saw a couple of posts about EV cars being more efficient than gas.

I've studied human nature and things are rarely that simple.

Studies show that when gas is cheap Americans buy big cars, and vice-versa when gas is expensive.

Americans will drive tanks if electricity is cheap enough, ergo Rivian.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-27
----------------------------------------

Take for example Trump calling Georgia asking for them to find 11,000 votes. The SAVE Act would allow Trump to invalidate or revoke 11,000 Passports labeling the voters "domestic terrorists." This is why he wants the SAVE act.
I think the messaging on the SAVE Act would be better as picking and choosing voters. The Feds can revoke or slow roll opposing party Fed voting IDs. Even a few thousand can throw an election.

People are sympathetic to IDs but not picking voters.
Check out how sexy Maine is here. :)
Nimoy's birthday reminds me that growing up being neurodivergent and  yet a straight A student that Spock was someone I saw myself in. Detached anti-social behavior. I'm sure I'm not the only neurodivergent boy to have seen themselves in Spock.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-26
----------------------------------------

Won't you be my neighbor, in Maine? :)
Trump is criming at the speed of light while the judicial system crawls at the speed of years and decades on appeals. 

Our judicial system is archaic and nonexistent. 99% of felony convictions are plea deals not jury. 99.9% of civil suits arbitration.

Wake up!
The US government has too much money to be a Democracy. For example, the trillion dollar military budget demands the military be used, continuously.
Ozzie outfit.

America is in rapid decline except for the 1% and yet going to put houses in the moon

#oligarchenergy

----------------------------------------
2026-03-25
----------------------------------------

Pro tip: my pinned post is just 
¯\_(ツ)_/¯

Copy post text and you too can have snazzy shrug. ;)
People are going to start driving more to avoid flying.

 Mmmm, wonder what that will do to fossil fuel usage? Especially between LA and SF. Other major urban corridors. 
¯\_(ツ)_/¯
I'm in that blue area, Maine.

Prime real estate now. :)
If we are electing Presidents who are worse than King George of 1776 and a Congress who lets the President do anything he wants, then what's the point of having a Democracy?


AI wars are coming. I mean come on. It is not much of a stretch to imagine AI malware.
Just think, we had Jefferson and Hamiltin in the Cabinet. Today the President and Cabinet are all crueler,  crazier and dumber than King George of 1776.



I love this kind of lighting. Various lighting settings yield very dramatic variations.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-24
----------------------------------------

I'm avoiding updating my Mac laptop to Liquid Glass based on the reviews. There is no option to  ignore an update. Every day I get a pop up asking to update that I dismiss. 

Linux is far superior.  I mean, you can ignore updates indefinitely without bother.
Ahh! I figured out what was bugging me about Starfleet Academy. The romance was a Star Wars rip off. 

He an orphan, her the daughter of an Admiral. And the romance? Written as badly as George Lucas: wooden and unbelievable. 

Leave the Star Wars  to Star Wars. Especially copying any Lucas romance.
It had aspects of ToS, TNG, DS9 and Voyager.

The "new" aspects may have been new to Star Trek but we're not fresh. 

It really felt like the writing was trying too hard to check boxes versus telling a story.

A child seaeching for a lost parent as the main plot is hackneyed and not Star Trek.
Russia is going to nuke Ukraine, Russia is going to sell nukes to Iran, Israel is going to nuke Iran, Trump is going to use a nuke anywhere, even inside the US on Democratic voters to win an election, are all nuke scenarios now serious for consideration because of Trump, Putin, and Israel.
The First Law of AI Code: 

To the extent the code is understood by humans, then AI is unnecessary. To the extent AI is necessary, then it is not understood by humans.
Expecting Iranian citizens to overthrow their gov is as dishonest as expecting American citizens to rise up and overthrow Trump, minus the 400 million guns.
Ahhh, refreshing cooler weather...
At some point the States are just going to ignore the Supreme Court. 

Hopefully soon.
Media? Like every other user post here is a Trump screen shot/quote from Truth Social.
Iran citizens are not allowed to own guns.

The rebellion nonsense is just cover for cruelty because that's who Israel is.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-23
----------------------------------------

Red meat allergy tick migration map:

media.cnn.com/api/v1/image...
TIL from family in Indiana that, check notes, Texas armadillos have moved as far North as IN.

A sure sign of the puny god's disfavor. First its a wild boar infestation, then ticks that give you a red meat allergy. 

 I'd can't he's really pissed because I'm an atheist. 

Just like MAGA can't. :)
You know I would never say, because I'm an atheist, that the heat wave in Texas, the rest of MAGA land, and nay, most of the US, is the puny god's wrath for putting MAGA and Trump in power, for the senseless death and destruction in Iran and Gaza.

Nope, I would never say that. :)

Just like MAGA.
Mmm. This will melt in a couple of days because:
1. Temps are in the 40s
2. By March UV rays have more melting energy due to sun angle.
irony, noun: 1. Iran overthrows its authoritarian regime and installs a Democracy followed by tripling war efforts to destroy Israel and the US due to prior their destruction of Iran.
He's going to Nuke the US because foreign entities are not involved. He's going to Nuke Maine because of his bad aim. 

Ooof
Pro tip: use parchment paper when baking lasagna.

Counter intuitive in that it starts with sauce on the bottom. 

No clean up.
Just a reminder, if you follow beauty it follows you back. :)
Got groceries yesterday. Staying home.
Oh, a comic about "i before e". My level of weird.

Comics are not who I am. I learned about Sam Keith today and his weird art. Luv it. Reminds of just weird stuff like Mad Magazine art I grew up with. Also same age, 63.
I'm in that cyan strip in Maine.
Got Alternative? 

This looks like a good place to start looking for open source alternatives. 

AI projects are clearly labeled AI and easily filtered. The Filter is most useful.

openalternative.co
----------------------------------------
2026-03-22
----------------------------------------

If you haven't browsed Edward Steichen's work then you are in for a treat. Quite lovely.

condenaststore.com/art/steichen
My objectives are:

1. Opinionated lighting difference about how photograph was taken.
2. Clean up old paintings tinted yellow from being hung in smoke filled rooms.
3. Occasional re-imagining of the colors. This one p**ses people off. /shrug. My feed.
AI is a brand only. The distinction is taking algorithms like the kind used for YouTube's feed to an extreme. This is why they need massive amounts of data center computing. The AI brand is just extreme computing. 

This is why AI "consciousness" is nonsense.
I thought it would be a good time to point out that "AI slop" as in the form of Photoshop, enhanced old photos/videos, etc. has been around since the Internet. 

AI is no different than say the algorithm YouTube uses for your feed. Exactly the same type of software and hardware.
Some posted this photo of  Dana Desboro Glover, wife of famed photographer, Edward Steichen. 

I thought I'd compare my clean up process with the software for enhancing old photos/movies.
This just feels like salt in th wounds. Oligarch energy.
Corruption is king, rule of law and social contracts are rapidly declining.

It is hard to imagine how we are going to reverse course.
AI = Trump

Both are just a continuation of decades long trends of unethical and amoral progression.
ISPs shouldn't exist. The Internet ethical design was decentralized and redundant. When it first started it was point to point. But then corporations turned the design into centralized for gate keeping ISP profit. So it is hard to defend standards as ethics.
One could argue that technical standards such as Tcp or encryption are a form of ethics. But the benefit is not society first, but corporations, greed.
When I started programming in the 1980s there was one ethical movement in software: GNU. That led to Open Source. Sadly, since then, it has  been greed and evil all the way down.
Chat question: "Where are the Democrats."
Dusty Smith: "The Democrats are the Washington Generals, they are paid to lose."

"The Generals' play genuine basketball at times...almost every game ends in a win for the Globetrotters."

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Washing...

www.youtube.com/watch?v=w03W...
Got Foodie? 

This reminded me of the Delancy Street program in San Francisco that runs a restaurant for ex-cons. 

Big Mama Kitchen Restaurant:
bigmamaskitchen.com

Full interview:
www.youtube.com/watch?v=gmuC...

Delancy Street Progam:
www.delanceystreetfoundation.org
The thing about capitalism is that products have to be updated  to sell new ones. The first large scale example I'm aware of car makers targeting 2 year cycles.

Software is in the same boat. More features every year. 

VCRs had 100s of buttons when we only used three.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-21
----------------------------------------

Pallet cleanser:

Temperatures for the next week in Central Maine.
So I'm also seeing posts that remote work is being favored due to oil prices. 

Maine real estate could take off again. Remote work in much milder temps. 

We dont get anywhere near the snow and cold as Minnesota.
It's still 40F here in Maine. Wonder if real estate here will start popping.
We need an Amendment to prohibit Federal IDs for voting.

If Trump has taught us that Executive orders are tyranny. The ultimate tyranny is to erase voters by revoking and invalidating Executive branch issued IDs by the millions. Trump has already designated millions as domestic terrorists.
Conservative headlines review:

Not a single word about gas/oil prices.
Gas lighting, noun: 1. The venture and capital in venture capital are charity.
Out:

Voting the lesser of two  evils.

In:

Voting the better of enemy of my enemy.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-20
----------------------------------------

Are the Dems as a party talking about their plans after Trump?

No denial. Know your enemy.
People don't understand this about demographic statistics. 

99% isn't that own you think it is with 340 million people. That's still 3.4 million people at 1%.
If you look at the investors like Bain Capital, they are all companies looking for 100/1 lottery return on investment. That money has to come from somewhere. Enjoy the ad free/algo free site while it lasts.
Freedom of speech protects being rude, hateful, and obnoxious. It doesn't mean relieving people of the responsibilities of speech.

I'm on Bluesky because of its ToS regarding speech.
Afroman being MAGA is the point behind the expression politics makes for strange bed fellows.
Just because someone supports Afroman's court case doesn't mean they automatically support everything else he represents.
So the quoted post said Afroman is MAGA, transphobic, punched a woman and is misogynistic.
That's frustrating. When the way to know how much to bite off is only after you've bitten off too much is the process then chaos will ensue.

A better approach is scientific. Test and measure the adoption of social change. 

This is the premise of mesh society and Irreni World Scale.

Irreni.social
The arbitrariness of which current social failure to fix is heartbreaking to decide.

When Jefferson was asked about charity, how much charity should the new Fed gov give, he replied with as much as the public can stomach.
Conservatives believe we need patriarchy, the clergy, the rich to tell us what's what. That's anti-Democratic. Religion is anti-Democratic on its face, no other proof required. 

Defining what's liberal is much harder. How much of which current social flaws are to be addressed now is arbitrary.
Either we believe the rich are required to keep the masses in line, or we let the masses flail about in all sorts of contradictory ways as free people using rules to try and elevate us all.
Jefferson being contradictory in owning slaves, unable to bring himself to free them, and yet freeing them in the first draft of the D of I still paints an accurate picture America today.
The Democratic principle is life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness should be shared by everyone. 

Jefferson wrote these words all the while owning slaves. He wrote abolishing slavery into the first draft of the Dec of Ind even though he couldn't bring himself to free his own slaves.
This doesn't mean we shouldn't try though. This is the evil of conservatism, of monarchy. Religion promotes human nature is fixed, immutable and the rules from 2000 years ago are still as applicable now as then.

That's mental slavery. 

I reject that. The Democratic principle is...
The American experiment was always one of aspiration and increment. Time is what prevents everything from happening all at once. Figuring out how to improve a flawed society is always itself a flawed process.
What separates Jefferson and Washington from Britain in 1776 is the aspiration to improve.

Burke argued that the depravity of poverty with 99% of humanity being poor was inevitable, permanent, and all of history. 

The founders broke that mold. We are living that aspiration today.
Jefferson owned his own newspaper and hired a French polygot to publish in multiple languages things like Hamilton was having an affair based only on rumor. Jefferson owned slaves and had sex with them.

He was part of who founded this country on freedom.

Hurting people is wrong.
"People are flawed."

Epitaph for the American left who could never make common cause.
The left dismissing people because they are both good and evil is what undermines the left. 

Seriously. Read the politics of 1776. Hamilton and Jefferson hated each other and were in the same cabi et.
George Washington owned slaves. His teeth were brown from drinking port daily and not because they were wooden. His false teeth were from his slaves.

This should be the opening statement about any history of him.

Doesn't erase what he did for this country.
Haters gonna hate.

When it comes to cops though it takes a professional to get away with it.
"anything" => "any Democrat"

Actions speak louder than words.
If we let the Ds do nothing between now and the midterms except run against Rs using click bait to sap all our attention, then we will deserve whatever happens.
Politics, noun: 1. The supposed sane party is doing nothing. Except campaigning using committee meetings to show us how insane, stupid and incompetent the insane, stupid and incompetent people are like we voters  are also insane, stupid and incompetent  and need their sage wisdom to expose them.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-19
----------------------------------------

So, Afroman won. Good. 

You know I kinda gotta wonder if the tide hasn't turned on the cops. I've been ACAB my whole life but typically juries always rule in favor of the cops. I just wonder if ICE has flipped the tables on this.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=smGm...
ACAB when you actually dig into it.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=HM8E...


----------------------------------------
2026-03-18
----------------------------------------

The bottom line is that if the billionaire class has no interest worldwide in honest journalism and effective gov then we are screwed. The small countries with good gov will eventually be corrupted.
The Alantic magazine is owned by someone interested in journalism but they have David Frum on staff. A Bush neocon who should be suffering the same terrible fate as William " The Bloody" Krystol for promoting death of Muslims.

And it's a magazine.
Rhetorical question: 

Aren't there any billionaires, even just one, who will buy or start honest journalism companies any more? 

Rupert Murdoch built a worldwide dishonest media empire. Where is the honest one?
So, we spend a trillion every year on the military, and they don't have mine sweepers.

What's impressive is not just that Iran knows it is in a war of attrition the US doesn't want, but that it is winning the propaganda war in spite of AI and all the MAGA decades of propaganda practice.

Chef's kiss. Maybe I'll take my tourist dollars there after they win. :)
"Still no air conditioning? Then no whatever you are about ask."
Iran, learn a wee bit out the country in this video. Enjoy! 

youtu.be/5xKIUpEpj0Q?...
----------------------------------------
2026-03-17
----------------------------------------

Well it is 100F in LA today. That can't be good.
"My name is not Sy Anne, just Anne."
Move fast and break things is not new, in spite of AI claiming otherwise. 

If you are looking for move slow and test things I can help.
Agreed. Been railing against move fast and break things as just not testing since 2010. AI is just move even faster faster and break even more things even more.
The subtefuge here us the ID is issued by the Federal Gov. Trump could revoke all ids for all Dems calling them domestic terrorists.

Federal issued IDs required for elections is  tyranny writ large.

The media gas lighting will continue until total US collapse completes.

Just ask Google if the US exports more oil than it imports. Yet all the media is talking gas price hikes.
Bari Weiss's "Free Press" is Quillette lite with more smug and less thought. And Quillette was infinitely more pretentious than edifying. 

I bring this up because Weiss is trying to relive her glory days kicking off new Intellectual Dark Web God debates. 
¯\_(ツ)_/¯
zzzz
youtu.be/3jWCLONu7DM
----------------------------------------
2026-03-16
----------------------------------------


I remember the day the R party died. 

William F Buckely Jr. is often credited for rejuvenating the Republican party in the 1940s.

In 2004 he rejected the nation building of GW Bush as anti-Republican. No nation building was a party plank.

The response. He was disowned as not being a Republican.
Before Rand Paul we had Ron Paul, who ran for President many times as a Libertarian.

Paul was asked once about his crazier conspiracy theory ideas and he responded, "We have Congress, rest assured they will never pass them."

Good times.
Before Obamacare 40 million Americans had no health insurance. We were getting near daily reporting on how Emergency rooms were being used as primary care.

We now live in a post truth era.

There will be no such reporting.

Ugh.
If you are not willing to replace the entire D and R parties, then you are not a serious person in wanting to fix US politics.
Democracy died in 1980. That's when political parties converted from at times doing the right thing to pure tribalism. 

Is my side winning. My side losing.

Perot was a very flawed individual, but he wanted to do at times the right thing. 

Now we are pure, unadulterated corruption and tribalism.
In many ways Ross Perot was the very first prominent example of, "I didn't leave my party,  my party left me" canidate. 

Perot was a "Never Raygun". Despised the man. 

People forget it was the Republican party that impeached Nixon. That's why he resigned. Nowhere to run.
Ross Perot was a conservative from Texas. He was a Fortune 500 CEO. Nothing lefty about him.

Yet he outflanked the left on Healthcare and NAFTA.

Just think about that. This was 1991. Even then the Dems were only pretending to be liberal. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
I was reminded of the complete capitulation and total surrender by Dems on the ERA Amendment and Hillarycare when Roe was overturned.

What did Dems say when asked why they never codified Roe in 50 years? We preemptively surrendered. Never whipped the votes.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Hillary tried to address healthcare in th 90s. 

Like the ERA Amendment that failed by one vote, one vote in the Senate.

What was the Dem response. Try even harder? No, complete and total  unconditional surrender.

One vote.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Perot also recognized NAFTA as a wage killer. Union busting.

But too late. Corruption in the US gov was too runaway and  all Pwrot efforts failed. 

Now defeating that corruption is impossible.

No denial. Know your enemy.
The last time America had a slim sliver  of a chance to save its Democracy was 1990.

Ross Perot recognized healthcare was a huge problem. Simply said if Canada is doing it better then adopt their system. Got 20% of the vote. Started a party. 

Now nothing.
Now that we live in a post truth era, then NASA going to the moon just seems like salt in a wound. Followed by battery acid and then poison ivy.

We are now anti-vax level of conspiracy unlike the 1960s. Moon shots? Really?
We live in a post truth era. What is/are

1. Inflation
2. Unemployment
3. Wages
4. AI

Media and gov lie. Constantly. It will take a least a generation to start gaining trust after we can fix them. No one has any gumption to fix them. Just click bait  pandering/anger.
I'd frame this more as a greed industry. Tech has been paid double and more in wages since the Web came into existence. We need to separate the effects of over compensation from the occupation in analysis and remedy.
Being na it always befuddles me when nt people feel the obsession to fit everything into historical words and class. The US fail is something new. It needs a new word. Oligarchy was ancient Greece, pre-Internet and global corporations.

Technocontrol
Runawayrich
Pedopigs
On one hand this country didn't make it to its 250th birthday. On the other hand John Adams was sure it would fail within 25 years and revert to monarchy. This got him labeled a monarchist. 

Perspective then...
Quaint, noun: 1. bygone days where we would debate needing to "win the peace" after winning the war, i.e. nation building. Now war is just outright pillaging and plundering. You know, like for all of history before 1776.
I saw where the Secretary of War was complaining that liberal media frames things as negative and he can't wait until Ellison takes over CNN.

However, has he every looked at conservative media? Since Trump took office they don't celebrate wins, only losses of Blue States fraud and crime.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-15
----------------------------------------

Quaint, noun: the US debating if waterboarding is torture for getting intel. 

If the military is taking no quarter, then I assume that includes any and all forms of torture.
Nukes. Trump wants to use nukes. Nukes are definitely kill them all and let the puny god sort them out mentality of the Agent Orange Vietnam War era.
So. 
1. Admits to terrorism of targeting elementary school.
2. Admits even more terrorism coming.
3. Will kill far more civilians than the Iranian regime killed protesters.
Endearing

m.youtube.com/watch?v=Iw86...
----------------------------------------
2026-03-14
----------------------------------------

friday night live music

www.youtube.com/watch?v=ANUz...
We lefties said this in 2004-2008 during the Iraq war after Saddam was deposed.

Crickets
Also I suspect most of my followers have me muted. I really only have a handful of followers. I know this because no reposts or replies. 

Bluesky should add a setting to only show unmutwd followers in the follower count.

You should know how important you are. :)
If you click on my followers link then I count 71 followers. Yet my displayed count is 450. That's because of block lists I use for no bots, no MAGA, and no karma farmers following > 5k users. 

Bluesky should fix that.
Trump is fully aware of the children grift. His family got banned from ever having a charity in New York because they ripped off 100% of the money donated to a scam children's cancer research charity.
Politicians are equally parts stupid, corrupt and predictable. 

They will do billionaire bidding by selling AI as education necessity.

So much so I predict Trump will bring back the Dept of Ed bigger than ever.

Think of the children! Best political grift evah!
When I first moved to Silicon Valley in 1984 to pursue a career in software, the State Lottery ballot measure was in progress.

They sold the lottery "for the children". 

Supplemental income only for education.

Five years after adoption it became primary education funds. Hostage funds now.
Trust me, they will weaponize AI.

And like every political financial act of tyranny it will eventually come down to the children.

Think of the children!
That's the problem with AI just being a brand with no defintion.

Legitimate uses like translation software for the disabled is piled in with art theft.
The bath water getting thrown out is translation.

LLMs can translate any language. The could translate any code template. They could create new VI, Voice Interface for the vision and hand use impaired.

I'd love a good Voice Interface.

Someone should make one.
Of course AI is the biggest IP rip off heist ever. Thieves.
This single-use app is where Sam Altman is going with AI as a utility. Bespoke apps. 

The irony is a templating system far cheaper could do the job.

It's all smoke and mirrors.

AI is the most expensive wool to ever be pulled over human eyes.

Free Wikipedia sold back to you for a sub grift.
Stamping out code like a factory works best in pristine new projects with the least and most recent dependencies. 

From this we can deduce that single use, disposable software will be where AI makes money. 

"AI, generate an app to order dinner." 

Every single dinner.
Where does template code fail? Wherever there exists integration boundaries:

1. Front end assuming back end design.
2. Existing legacy code, so called technical debt
3. Systems programming like networking and database integration.
4. Testing on multiple platforms, legacy platforms
There is a calculus where the same factors that support template generated code then supports AI code.

Where AI code will fail is where template code  will fail.
Template code is in heavy use today. Mostly in generating websites. 

So it is no surprise that AI code is most viable today when generating web sites. You know,  Javascript.
Back when we still did science in computer science, then we would have research.

Compare a far cheaper template code generator from the 1990s to AI code generation of today. 

Do a cost-capability analysis. My guess is Ziffian, 80% of AI code would be better served just with template code.
When AI directly writes 1st gen machine code then it will be AI. Until then it is just a tower of Babel. An overblown templating system.

AI code generators can be replaced with far cheaper template systems to the same effect. Better, I'd say in that coding standards can be enforced with templates.
1st gen: 100101001
2nd gen: jump,  branch
3rd gen: printf("hello world")
4th gen: import std

4th and 5th gen code qriters have been around since the 80s. AI solves none of the known ptoblems.
I was in Berkely grad school doing DB research in the 90s and:

1. This is an artifact of Codd designing relational calculus as descriptive and not declarative, and
2. Oracle couldn't build DB optimizers back then either.

Tell us this is your very first day on the Internet without saying it. 

First, this is a horse so dead that it's disentigrated from all the beatings.

Second, that's not how language works. The word atheist meant disbelief 2000 years ago, now means "lack of belief".
Oh look, Multics redux. 

Let's do the Time Warp again! 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multics
/sarcasm on

You know, I was thinking to myself, I lost my morality about  not doing political violence recently. But after two mass shootings today, there were so many politicians posting that political violence is never the solution that I found it again! Whew! Thanks, politicians!

/sarcasm off
The only thing more phony than a priest or preacher being self-righteous morally superior is a corrupt, corporate billionaire owned politician.
How does that work exactly? Scolding people after mass shootings. Does that make the politician the parent figure? Ooh, I'll vote for you. Those scoldings are sure to pass bills in Congress.

Don't you find it all warm and endearing when politicians remind us how to be moral. 

Pike off.
Our politicians do like to talk down to us and treat us like we are all stuck in our terrible twos.

...Politician looking down on us wagging their finger in our face after every mass shooting:

"No polical violence now, no antisemitism. Or no pudding for you."

Pike off.
If you can't fight a war for two weeks or one year on a trillion dollar annual budget then that military should be abolished. Immediately.
I think I have  Djinn in my phone gaslighting me. Sometimes on Bluesky the music that was playing before I start a video on restarts wgen the video finishes and other times not.

Silly Djinn.
I don't know, maybe it is just me being na in an nt world, but if your Senator is so daft they don't know how inept and immoral Senator Markwayne Mullin is
such that you need to call your Senator then I'm pretty sure your Senator is Senator Markwayne Mullin.

¯\_(ツ)_/¯
----------------------------------------
2026-03-13
----------------------------------------

And now for something completely different. 

Cool, breeze, evening sounds. 

This is really two songs, a full version in the first five minutes and then the sexy trombone for back four minutes. 

Enjoy! Desfruta te! 
www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hbyg...
ISIS was civil war.

Iraq Syria Islamic State was a civil war to take over those countries. The US always called them terrorists. If the Sunnis try to gain control of Iran if the country collapse then we are talking decades long "terrorism".
Listening to some Iranian scholars there is a very real chance Iran collapses into civil war like what happened in Syria. 10 million refugees flee the country. Yet this reality is never presented by Israel and the US.
We are clueless.

If Iran held elections today then would the existing regime just win? We don't know. That's my point. Let's say you have 10 Million city dwellers who would vote for a new gov. That still leaves 80 million. We are Clueless.
Pundits and influencers are treating Iran as Iraq. It is not.

1. Iraq was Shi'i majority with a Sunni government. Iran is all Shi'i.
2. Iran has Russian and China as allies. Iraq did not.

Iran can take the same approach as Washington. Just wait it out until an ally comes to the rescue.
The Iraq war took 20 years. Saddam didn't have any allies. Iran, on the other hand, does. 

The American Revolution was an asymmetrical war with Washington's top priority to just have an army. After 9 years we finally convinced the French to tip the scales for the win.
I both agree and disagree with this video title.

1. There is no AI as in human consciousness.
2. There is AI as a brand. 

The fact that humans are easily fooled goes back to "there's a sucker born every minute". The Turing test was always assuming the smartest humans were testing the computer.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-12
----------------------------------------

So Israel is still floating this stupid idea that the Iranian people should rise up.

The Iranian  people have no guns, no arms. How does that happen? 

This is all so stupid.
A must watch.

In 1776 America was outmatched by the British military that it was considered over before it started the same as the US outmatches Iran today. As this video points out, survival is a win. Washington understood his mission: survival of his army.
He won.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=LCdz...
Nice, we need a new Cyber Analog social society to match Steam Punk. :)
True, but AI is in everyone's face 
.
Republicans commonly reference John Adams, "Woe be the day when the public figures out they can vote themselves money."

But they leave out the second half, "and still the politicians vote more money than that on war spending."
Trump's request for a 1.5 trillion dollar military budget is Raygun redux.

Only, instead of "winning" the Cold War with outspending the Soviet Union on the military, we collapse our own country.
If your country has a trillion dollar defense budget, then your country will always be at war.
We need to abolish ICE and the triliion dollar defense spending.

We need to start over and replace both with something less expensive and less violent.
People are rightfully pointing out that the billions spent each day for war in Iran could provide Healthcare at home.

The same can be said for the now trillion dollar annual defense budget.

Where does all that money go? /rhetorical question
Media collapse.

Historically, I'd see Military Industrial Complex reporting where MIC needs constant war.

1. Combat readiness
2. Munitions rotation, bombs go bad
3. Contractor corruption like Dick Cheney and Haliburton

But, just unfluencer, click bait media today.

Meh
People hate tyranny. Corporations are more powerful than governments. Linux took 15 years to start gaining mass adoption. Another 15 years to get to AI level adoption today.

As Orson Wells said, no wine before its time.

AI needs another 10 years as hobby use and then only adopted when it works.
Mmmm
If Iran has a 10% population leave as refugees due to war like what happened in Syria then they will end up in Europe. Hadn't realized that.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=m2UC...
----------------------------------------
2026-03-11
----------------------------------------

I laughed at anthropologists thinking culture is some entity outside of humans. But as I gotten on in years I'm beginning to see why they might think that's the case.
We should be seeing hundreds and thousands of soc start ups like we see with tech start ups. Trial and error is a big part of social adoption. Yet we humans avoid soc start ups worse than any plague.
Democracy, socialism, communism, theocracy, etc are centuries old. Why are we stuck there? It will be our undoing. I invented Mesh society no different than any tech start up today. Yet there is no interest in social engineering start ups. Why?
I'm a free thinker. An atheist rejecting 2000 year  nonsense is just the least of it. 

Q: Why do humans innovate tech at the speed of days and society at thousands of years?

When I was doing anthropology research I came across modelling culture as an external entity. Something outside of humans.
Salman Rushdie wrote a book decades ago and they are still trying to kill him.
Osama Bin Laden tried multiple times in the 90s on the world trade center. Or some version of that. It doesn't have to be a country we piss off. Just a few.
If a trillion dollar military budget is doesn't cover war expenses then what is it covering? Flag waving?
The Pentagon hasn't passed an audit in decades. Billions unaccounted for each year. On what basis can more money requests made?
The US Military Budget is like larger than the next biggest 10 countries combined or some s**t. They have a trillion dollar annual budget. The should easily be able to afford war in Iran and billions left over. They certainly have far more money than Iran. They don't need more money.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-10
----------------------------------------

New interim CEO = smells like forced Jay out. Dudes a VC partner and Google has hooks into Atmo conference. Bad tidings.
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm).

Join an MGO today! (Micro/mesh governing organization)

irreni.social
Petty jealousies of world rulers are killing us and will kill us as a species unless we transition from politics to society management.
We are all Earthlings now. Although I prefer Terrans to Earthlings.

Terra is Latin for Earth, dirt. "Terra Firma" (solid ground) and "Terra Incognita" (unknown ground), etc.

People often use Terra to refer to the planet Earth in Sci-Fi, and/or the adjective "Terran" to refer to things from Earth.
Climate change demands Earthlings coordinate as an entire population. 

Politics can barely function as a system, let alone coordinate entire planet projects. 

Politics devolves to petty jealousies of the ruling class and prevents nations from cooperating.
If hierarchy is a fundamental flaw in Democracy, then the political class only concerned with the political class is a fundamental flaw of politics.

"General Welfare" and "Reserved to the States and the people" were  notions as close as the US Constitution came to encompassing all of society.
Pol in polling and politician is a Greek stem for "head". 

There is no head in Mesh society. Only Mesh nodes and projects.

No head means no politics. 

Mesh society is an entire society design.
Democracy constitutions are nigh impossible to revise. 

Mesh project contracts are expected to revise every five years. 

There is one Democracy Constitution for all people. There can be more project contracts than there are mesh nodes. This means corruption is diluted and easily discarded.
Projects are limited to five year time spans. When a project time elapses then Project Zero gives an evaluation of the project's objectives and the project can 1. renew, 2. revise, or 3. die.

Projects constantly being evaluated for meeting objectives is what passes for politics today.
Mesh nodes are a fixed size group of thirty people.

Mesh nodes party together via projects. 

Projects are managed by project zero. 

Project zero manages Mesh node membership, project contracts and project evaluations of contract objectives.
Democracy doesn't scale was obvious in 1980 when I started working on Mesh society. 

Mesh society is flat vertically. It only grows horizontally. That's the mesh. 

Mesh society has two principle lynch pins: mesh nodes and projects.
Democracy doesn't scale. It is inherently flawed by two structural underpinnings.

1. Founded on hierarchy that concentrates power, money and politics on the one and the few at the top.
2. Relies on good faith that corruption destroys. The checks and balances are to easily overwhelmed.
We are in a death rattle of the US Empire dying and have been since 1980. The Moral Majority was never moral or a majority.
Looking for AOC  et al  to save us is not serious. Democracy relies on the good faith of its politicians. No good faith, no Democracy. A new Constitution is meaningless without that good faith. We need two new D & R parties and a new corruption proof structure. This has to be the starting point.
The last off ramp to save Democracy was Ross Perot. Not his Presidential bid except that it energized millions to reject both parties. After  Perot started the Freedom party. That's what is needed. Turns out Perot wasn't up to the task. Too much narcissism and not enough politician.
Empires don't die overnight. By some accounts it took hundreds of years for the Roman Empire to fall.
I put US Democracy dead at 1980. Raygun stole the election using Iran hostages. Christian Nationalism with Jerry Falwell supporting Raygun.  Others go as far back to 1968. Nixon. The Democratic party calling on police to beat students. The Democrats going with popular vote for President.
Hero thinking. Bernie thinking. I see this thinking all the time in engineering where manager's view of engineering is surface deep. 

It takes an entire party. Obama didn't have the party behind him. Neither did Clinton in 1992 or Carter in 1976. 

AOC isn't going to save us. It takes a party.

----------------------------------------
2026-03-09
----------------------------------------

Realistic, noun: 1. Prof Jiang being of dubious academic credentials and espousing conspiracy theory cruft is being embraced by millions thirsty for reporting on Iran War rather than corporate media. 2. See Donald Rumsfield and you go to war with the media you have, not the media you wish you have.
2. See conspiracy theoris.
Impossible, noun: 1. Never attribute to malfeasance what is better explained as incompetence being a concept understood by the American people.
Pointless, noun: 1. The adjective assigned to a noun where the noun is not applicable. For example, the unconditional in unconditional surrender is said to be pointless because  surrender is not applicable to liars, cheats, and ghouls.
Oomph, noun: 1. That time between being aware an accident is about to happen and the accident happening. 2. Daylight savings time period between the first couple of days being chalked up as clouds and weather and the existential horror of your brain going nope, just nope, can't  cope.
Get it together already people, noun: 1. The type of frustration resulting from the Iranians understanding you can no more surrender to Trump than to another  dinosaur extinction sized asteroid. Asteroids could be said to be evil, but it solves nothing as it is just senseless brute force alone.
Disparate, noun: 1. The difference between chaos and evil. 2. Two things of different classes that should not be mistaken as the same. 3. The difference between Trump and Dick Cheney. Evil requires intelligence, awareness, and thought. Chaos is thoughtless. 4. See D&D alignments.
FUD, noun: 1. Fear, uncertainty, and doubt made famous by Microsoft gaslighting about their competition and unfair practices starting in the 90s. 2. A word that will enter US daily talks about the 2026 midterms. 3. FOP, fog of propaganda
Full Circle, noun: 1. In the 2003 invasion of Afghanistan, the US was surprised to learn that many Afghanies had not heard of 9/11. The US  then conducted an air campaign dropping millions of leaflets explaining why the US was bombing them. In 2026,  propaganda was so bad in the US ...
----------------------------------------
2026-03-08
----------------------------------------

A couple of points

1. They are incompetent idiots
2. Faking data is much cheaper
3. They are not following the law to want evidence 

My guess is that T will create a list of millions of liberal  domestic terrorists making the ineligible to vote. 

If SAVE is passed then revoke the National ID.
Just a reminder. I have all the solutions(tm).

Mesh society.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
AI and nuclear bombs are just raw power that the rich lust after. 

However, Trump is the norm as far as rich people character and intelligence and they have no capacity to understand their power.

Dystopia ensues. Dystopia ensured.
There are a ton of books warning us about AI. 

There is a fun movie from the 1970s called Wizards. People who weird tech in a pre-tech society due to war destruction are Wizards.
War will inevitably reduce our technical capability to understand pre-war technology and then technology will be seen as magic or take over society.
AI as tyranny has long been predicted by sci-fi. 

AI taking over society because humans lost the ability to understand it due to nuclear war is the premise of the Matrix movies.

In other words, it is not the singularity of AI gaining consciousness like with Skynet, but human behavior.
AI is just sophistry that is expensive to run. It freezes out small businesses. 

AI companies will pick winners and losers by simple pricing. 

Raw power.
The extremely large and complicated banking regulations implemented after bubbles burst are only affordable to implement by too-big-to-fail banks.

These expensive regulations freeze out competition from small companies.

Republicans will never deregulate them.

The banks own their a**es.
AI publicity terrorism is Wall Street.

After the dot com bubble burst and then again the 2008 real estate bubble burst, then Congress enacted really large complicated financial regulations. 

Why? Republicans are anti-regulation?

Because only large corps can afford the accounting and legal fees.
AI today is a reflection of Wall Street. Convolute something with nigh impossible math for 99.999% of the population along with the most Byzantine rules so as to freeze everyone out.

In other words, just repeating the Sophist society of ancient Greek as power.

Meh.
As a software engineer I can definitely say there is nothing interesting about today's current AI technology. It runs on the same hardware using algorithms.

The difference is scale. Massive scale. Ergo all the data centers. 

That's not sustainable though.
The AI publicity terrorism is MAGA. 

It is the dumbest m f'ers telling the rest of us how dumb we are. 

Been there. Hated it then, just exhausted with it now.

Get a new script.
I mean, the AI publicity terrorism really could be just hubris, look at how smart we are, aren't you impressed, and let me smell ever increasing amounts of my own f*rt's. But it just feels like there is more to it. 

We just aren't important enough to be the audience.
I don't know about you but if given the choice of: 

a. Massive layoffs and lowering wages, or

b. Ha ha ha you f*cking stupid idiots we are replacing you and spiking the football as we do massive layoffs and lowering wages,

then I kinda prefer a.).
Perhaps they are manufacturing consent, just not with the public. The Tech faction is gaslighting every other faction's CEOs to accept outsourcing to AI.

It feels a lot like a conversation you overhear in a language you don't know.

It is gibberish. We are not the intended audience.
Corp. America doesn't need to manufacture consent. They own the politicians who do their bidding. We can't stop them. 

So what gives with all the AI promotion justifying laying people off?

It is easy to be flip and say they are just fever dream crazy smelling their own f*it's.
I'm old enough to remember outsourcing starting in 2000. Thousands of tech jobs were outsourced to India, China, everywhere. Call center customer support h*ll created.

No gaslighting needed. You just picked up the phone and someone from India was helping you with cable ISP.
Here's the thing that makes zero sense about the AI gaslighting. 

Since when did corp. America telegraph layoffs and posture over doing so. They just lay off millions with impunity. No sympathy, no remorse, no empathy. Period. 

They have never felt the need to explain themselves. Period.
The AI campaign to terrorize us reminds of Andrew Yang's Prez  campaign.

He said automation/AI would replace truck drivers and we needed to start training them to code. 

Now AI is eliminating junior dev positions and yet contradictory allows everyone to be a dev.

Geez us. Get better gaslighting.
Me thinks thou doth promote too much. 

The gaslighting will continue until morale improves.

I mean, the gaslighting gives the game away.
Democracy doesn't scale because hierarchy doesn't scale. Hierarchy doesn't scale because the one or the few cannot keep pace with the daily firehose of information in the computer age. 

Enter mesh society. Only grows horizontally. 

Join a mesh node today!

Irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2026-03-07
----------------------------------------

Fascism by Pam Bondi.
I play with the NA/NT communication chasm.

I created my name.

Mybrid -> My hybrid

Wonderful -> Mybrid, Trees Are Wonderful (full name)
Am I supporting the social media text with my art, or is my social media  text extending the art? 

Mmmm. That chasm is what I feel as an NA person communicating in an NT world. /neuro-atypical/typical
I enjoy making social media text, even if the commentary is dire and depressing. I post the art sometimes directly correlating to the text, sometimes only somewhat correlated, and sometimes random. The reader is free to make their own determination. You know, how art is suppose to land. ;)
AI code is like taking paint and  throwing it at canvas. Yeah, there are some people  successful at it, but most of us will chafe.

First law of AI code:

To the extent AI code is understood by humans then it is unnecessary.  To the extent AI code is necessary then it is not understood by humans.
Social media text is a lot like software. What's not said is more volumous than what is said, which is why AI code is hype. 

Context is everything. 

There are those who understand the environs that code runs in, including usability by other developers, and those who just surface code.
Thanks for your comments.
Social media text is like art.  Stand alone, dense connections and yet easily taken out of context. Like when sarcasm is lost in text...except for those for whom it was intended. 

Me likey. :)
The world is pathological right now because the same set of billionaires maximizing global cooperation for profits are also minimizing global cooperation for dysfuntional, mythological, fantasy Western society.

Hat tip: Alexandra
Doom scrolling is a choice. I decorate my social commentary with art and photos every originating post. 

You can too!

"And the award for best decorated timeline goes to...Mr. Wonderful!"
People who in polling claim not trust media still do so blindly.

My role as a cynic and skeptic will always be needed and underrepresented.
Sadly capitalism is all profit. We another system to enforce rights.
Single race is last place.

DEI was always good capitalism and  business. Creates the largest labor and customer pools possible. Voluntarily limiting either pool is loser mentality.

Global companies are not going white only. They like green too much.
Sometimes I wonder if the photography technology at the time motivated design. The shadow play here comes to mind. Camera resolution was much lower perhaps inspiring bold shapes?
Amdahl's law applies. Optimizing 90% of 10% is only 9%. There is the 40% overhead off the top for meetings and such. Then at least 50% of the remaining time is testing. Writing text is about 10% of my time.
The US fire bombings of Dresden and Tokyo in WWII as well as the A Bombs on civilians were terrorist acts. We have long been terrorists.

There is a difference though. Historically we had some degree of trust signing treaties, albeit tariffs or peace.

No more. Trumps word is utterly useless.
The Pretti and Goode murders were deliberate terrorist acts to intimidate MInn. The school bombing was also a deliberate terrorist act. We don't use maps. We use satellite images. If you believe that map nonsense about killing school girls you are as dumb as they think you are.
There is a parallel to be drawn between firing Kristi Noem and the Ayatollah of Iran assassination. 

Cutting off the head of the snake won't change a thing although the people promoting that were very loud about it doing so.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-06
----------------------------------------

Trump wants to use nukes? But it is not hurricane season yet. :)
Que Rico! Que bueno! Tal vez voy a visitar Espana y gasto todo mi  plato. 

Or something like that. My vocabulary was 500 words at one time.
This is my favorite, ergo the Police reference
For those of you five minutes younger than moi.

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dogs_Pl...
"Dogs Playing Cards After The Police Showed Up"
"Safe Cracking Heats Up"
I have always thought that I'd be an excellent sit-down comedian.

"Booooo! Sit down!"
I'm begging, I mean beginning, to think that setting a lower age limit on the age to be President was the wrong type of limit. 

TJ wrote the Declaration of Independence at 33.

Today even a toddler would do better.
Serious Hattitude
All the Wonderful(tm) Spring bird photos on Bluesky make me wanna tweet...

...too soon? ;)
What if Japan allies with Iran so they can get food and oil shipments? 

This kind of thinking is called, "Thinking out of the water."
90% incumbency at 10% approval rating politics.
Just a reminder if you follow beauty it follows you back. Reality life balanced.
"Hug Complete"
"New Game: Whack A Doodle"
"Horse Of Coarse? No! Horse Of Fine Print"
"I Cast A Spell On You"
"Bite Me"
"Hey Zeus!"
"Get To The Point"
"Tree Avalanche"
"Color Blind"
"Plants Won - Plants Vs Zombies"
"Zzzzzzz"
"Monet Reflections"
"Can Of Peas"
"Trees Dancing Disco Inferno"
"Crisp and clean with no caffeine"
Pro tip: re replacing Windows with Linux.

Every laptop sold since 2010 has multiple cores -> CPUs. You can  install Virtual Box on Windows and test drive Linux for free by assigning the VM one of the cores/CPU.
See YouTube for instruction videos.

Trump is a coward. Bullies run away from anything closely resembling a fair fight. Don't be surprised if T stops the Iran war by claiming Cuba has nukes and invades Cuba.

Bullies always prey on the weak.
So we are using million dollar defense missiles to shoot down $50k drones. 

Our allies in Iran would be those in the big cities. The big cities are what the US is bombing. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=16N_...
The Military Industrial Complex doing its thing. Performance art with the War Powers Act they knew would never pass but full steam ahead on funding. Same ole Dems.
Saw a post about AI quickly sequencing genomes. 

I've worked in sequencing since 2014. It's a statistical analysis. It has never been exact. It is also expensive. Testing is what I did and it takes 2-100 times longer to test than the initial sequence. 

AI quickly sequencing quickly is just hype.
Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and other Mid Eastern countries had rebels the US armed and backed. It is pretty pathetic that the US has absolutely zero allies inside Iran considering how much the Iranians themselves protest their own government. 

¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Interesting. I have not been doing much promotion for my social engineering web site lately. It needs a revamp. 

However, I'm getting more views now than when I was. 

Perhaps people are getting Mesh society curious now that Democracy has shown itself to be deader than dead.

irreni.social
"Did you see the glitch just now?"
Same except for software. 

I'd need an attached garage with an "engine" room right on the other side of the wall of the bath for a water heater, well pump tank, solar power management and HVAC.

Just a reminder that Trump has been in violation of the Emoluments Clause every single day of both terms.

I guess corruption isn't sufficient for removal from office.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-05
----------------------------------------

Trump brags about ending 7 wars.

Ask him to display 7 peace treaties in effect and being honored as a result. If there were any such treaties then perhaps his "negogiations" with Iran or Venezuela would have more than zero merit.
You can't negotiate with liars, cheats, back stabbers, and grifters. 

The EU finding out that Trump's word is worthless and he's completely untrustworthy is far more relevant to Iran than bombs. You can't negotiate with terrorist grifters like Trump.
You know this trope scene in cinema where a senior good guy says to the apprentice, "Now that's how you deliver a threat." 

Truman fire bombed Tokyo and then dropped two A bombs on Japan.
Steven Weinberg took a swipe at religion when he said, "Good people will do good things, bad people will do bad things, but for good people to do bad things that takes religion."

I say swipe because Pete is not a good person.
Back in 2003, the shock and awe terrorism of the US inspired a protest movement within the US, Not In Our Name. We should bring that back.
I just can't get my mind around bragging about being a terrorist. Killing a school full of children on day one. Just like cutting someone's head off on camera. I guess we have moved on from euphemisms of collateral damage to blatant terrorism.
So genocide then. Also, 2003 called and wants its shock and awe back.
I'm na, neuroatypical. NA also means not applicable and not available.

Which always amuses when people who just meet me get concerned when they find out I live alone. It amuses because I hear this even in my 60s, and then I think to myself all three meanings of NA apply. :)
The End Times are nigh is not a workable military strategy.

The competent and sane will abandon the Trump military, leaving behind the incompetent and insane running our nukes.
AI is just move fast and break things redux.

The consumer is the tester.
"you can feed a human baby all they need, give them all the dietary nourishment they require, but if you don’t provide them with warmth and love, they’re not going to form an attachment to you."

I can attest. Never cared for either parent.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-04
----------------------------------------

I have zero problems with Dems campaigning using CSPAN as Kabuki theater. By any means necessary. 

However, it is incumbents only, obviously. We are not going to elect fresh lefty politicians who are frozen out. The current Dems are part of the problem.

That's my objection.
Worth a few minutes for history if Iran relations.

m.youtube.com/watch?v=LOpq...
Trump will pardon everything so nothing will be prosecuted. This is just the Dems campaigning for midterms using Kabuki theater.
Karma would be if Iraq, a majority Shi'i country like Iran, allied with Iran. Then Libya, and so on.
Soon T will need to distract from Iran. Say war on Greenland or Cuba. Eventually dropping a nuke somewhere due to all the instability he created.
Fun fact, I worked at Coherent from 1988-1993. The Antares laser cost about $500,000 then and Berkeley labs had 26 of them in a ring provide simulations of Sun reactions.
Love the dress.
"I love the fresh smell of art in the morning."
"What makes you think I was flirting with your brother?"
Hattitude


Alma Tameda vibes

MAGA is running out of steam. Some of its longest lasting steam since the early 90s and they advent Rush Limbaugh and Fox News has been the Clintons. 

Having the Clintons testify was intended to chum red meat in  MAGA waters. 

Nothing. No reaction by MAGA. Even with the planned photo leak.
"Epiphany bright idea moment"
Mmmmm, "do not disturb" hattitude.
After the 1/6 riots in DC I watched on CSPAN Mike Pence count the Electoral votes. It is protocol to allow Reps from a State to  comment as their State  votes are read. I saw the absolute dumbest idiots give comments supporting Trump. These MAGA morons will believe this nonsense, or any other.
And the surrealism expands. geez us
Speaking of chemical warfare, a few years ago in Syria chemical weapons were used. 

Here is a review on Wikipedia of chemical weapons attacks in Syria over many years. 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Use_of_...
Just a reminder that Iran likely possesses biochemical weapons and yet I've heard nothing about that as an objective.

www.fdd.org/analysis/202...
So many surreal layers. CBSNews source, is this Fox News level propaganda? 

Surrealism is a type of art, not a type of governing.

Melania Trump presides over U.N. Security Council meeting as U.S. continues Iran strikes - CBS News www.cbsnews.com/news/melania...
The Trump admin is so incompetent that they are going to drop a nuke within US borders.

Read "U.S. Shoots Down Three of Its Own Fighter Jets as Iran War Spirals" on SmartNews: l.smartnews.com/p-7gqnEntu/u...
"You have to be careful if you are not sure where you are going because you might not get there."
-Yogi Berra
----------------------------------------
2026-03-03
----------------------------------------

Also, notice how conservative media goes from 86% Republicans in the starting sentence to just "Americans" in the next sentence. This is SOP for conservative media.
Two "realities". Townhall ran with an 86% approval of the Iran war. 
1. Exclusive poll shown only to  one reporter.
2. Republicans, because no one else is American.
3. Nuclear weapons question except they were 100% eliminated by Trump back in June of 2025.
We've gone from not having any exit strategy in 2003 ending in a 20 year conflict to having no objectives where assassination is not regime change and declaring a previous mission in June already accomplished the same objectives for a new conflict 7 months later.
The T admin is unbelievably stupid. Drones are the new missiles. Ukraine had semis loaded with drones strike deep in Russian territory. At a minimum you would need to destroy all drones and missiles.

The T admin mission statements sound like they are from 2003.
The only weapon not for sale on the market is nukes. It is gibberish to say the US is going to destroy all of Iran's missile capabilty where even if possible today then Iran can buy new ones tomorrow.
----------------------------------------
2026-03-02
----------------------------------------

The bane of AI existence:

“People forget how fast you did a job – but they remember how well you did it.”
— Howard Newton
Liberal bloggers had been up in arms ... Kristol said, ... it gave him some pleasure to see their “heads explode.” Kristol was perhaps the most influential pundit  in promoting the U.S. invasion of Iraq and has strongly defended the move ever since. 
blueamerica.crooksandliars.com/2008/01/01/n...
William "The Bloody" Krystal must be biting his tongue as a new Democrat. Biting so hard there is blood spurting out of his mouth for twenty meters. The War on Iran is chum in the water for all Neocon sharks. 

Are the Never-Trumpers going to turncoat once again?
So the Houthi's are a small Iranian backed Yemen faction that has embarrassed the US many times taking and attacking ships. But sure, we are totally going to dominate Iran.
So now you gotta ask yourself what did Iran get in exchange for releasing the hostages for Raygun?
Just a reminder that the Republican party owes a debt of gratitude to the current Iranian gov. 

Raygun stole the 1980 election. He illegally negotiated with Iran to delay release of Iranian hostages until after the election, thus nudging a very close election in his favor and he won.
The irony of regime change in Iran is that we did that once already in 1953, and the current gov of Iran deposed that brutal dictator. 

But sure, let's expect a different result this time.
It is a sign of how utterly useless American media has become when my personal bluesky posts have more regional and geopolitical info than all of American media combined.
America First means our military is doing the bidding of Israel and Sunni Saudi Arabia.  

The BS about caring about civilians is a smoke screen, yet the media just reports whatever T says.

Iranians are brown people. Trump's a racist.
Reminds me of 2001 all over again when Bush was unaware that Sadaam was Sunni but Iraq was majority Shi'i. 

Guess who Iran was backing? Bush was asked about any worries about Iran given the Sunni's were overthrown. Bush didn't know there were two opposing factions.
We are not just fighting a proxy war for Israel against  Iran, but Yemen Sunni control for Saudi Arabia.
So now you might be asking yourself why we aren't arming unarmed civilians in Iran? 

Because imbeciles believe Muslim = terrorist. 

Also, Shi'i Iran is an enemy of Sunni Saudi Arabia and has been funding and arming the Houthi faction fighting Saudi Arabia in Yemen.
It is actually worse than T pushing civilian overthrow without any guns. In real regime change we arm the rebels. We give them billions in arms. We are not arming civilians in Iranians.

It's a ruse. It's BS.
Just a reminder that cons are 2nd Amendment nutters who believe guns are required to overthrow a tyrannical gov.

Trump is pushing propaganda that the Iranian civilians take over the gov when they have no guns. 

That's how stupid he knows MAGA is.
I think it is telling that one of the demands missing of Iran is to remove Hamas and support for Hamas.
A country that invaded Afghanistan and overthrew the Taliban while occupied for 20 years only to watch the Taliban immediately take over after leaving 20 years later thinks it can bring about regime change in Iran.
The War Powers Act is nonsense. Letting a President start a war that lasts 60-90 days assumes the attacked country will oblige if Congress doesn't approve. The Iraq War lasted 20 years.

Congress has to approve once conflict starts.
Americans who are deathly afraid to draw cartoons of Mohamed attack a country that inspires this kind of terrorism. Again.
We've been down this road many times. A month from now new videos of this dude will be posted daily. Is he alive, is it AI? 

If I were a leader in Iran then I'd had a body double and been hiding in an underground bunker for at least a year now.
Iran is lying about what's going on. The US Government is lying. Israel is lying. 

Believing anything they say is pure folly.

We live in a no truth era.
Iamblakely reminding us a study put out by Princeton years ago that US law and policy has a near zero reflection of public opinion. This blatantly obvious with the War on Iran. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=vNSN...
----------------------------------------
2026-03-01
----------------------------------------

Supposedly they assassinated the leader of Iran.

In the Iraq war in 2003 they gave soldiers a deck of 52 cards with leaders and terrorists to assassinate.

And they did.

Yet we were in the Middle East for 20 years.
Pearl clutching, hand wringing, and self-righteous, strongly worded social media posts are all we are going to get from the Democrats.
John McCain called, he wants his "Bomb, Bomb, Bomb...Bomb, Bomb Bomb Iran" back.

Someone should tell Trump he's doing McCain's bidding.

I guess we are back to Neocon foreign f**kery.
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bomb_Iran
This is the intersection with tech bro billionaires.  Thiel preaching the Apocalypse is effective altruism: reduce world population to 1 billion for future generations.
You may not know this if you don't live in Maine, but we've been subjected to non-stop Susan Collins political ads for well over a year. For and against.
MAGA, noun: 1. Hate, 2. Liars, 3. Bullies, 4. Willful stupidity where Trump tells them he eliminated Iran's nukes in an illegal bombing and then a few months later starts an illegal war to get rid of Iran's nukes.
War Pigs. Outdated  insult.

1. Squeal
2. Snort
3. Eat human food trash called slop
4. Wallow in mud
5. Fat
6. Fights over trough eating  position

Bankers, cops and politicians were common targets and not race. 

m.youtube.com/watch?v=bc5N...
Dems supporting Repubs over left Dems is who Dems are.

No denial. Know your enemy.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-28
----------------------------------------

Capitalism 
1. Continues perpetual annual upgrade of phones, laptops etc with permanent  increasing demands
2. Lower wages of developers and white collar labor
The right is currently predicting they will out breed the left and take over American politics permanently. Just as Idiocracy predicted. However, I am more inclined to bet that the upper middle class will flee the country faster and thus leaving MAGA to live out its conspiracy fever dreams.
This is the same as Americans leaving the cities for the suburbs after WWII. When the going gets tough Americans take their money elsewhere .
I was just watching a series episode from 2012 spot on predicting AI of today. It would be eerie how spot on they were given Hollywood has little understanding of computers except when you consider they are predicting Upper Management and Corporate greed and not technology.
It is only by facing the reality that we in fact can wipe out our species that generates the resolve to get rid of nuclear weapons that have this potential. Our denial that we are capable of this is why we have nukes.

Preaching religious prophecy of our extinction is a crime against humanity.
Sci-fi writers have speculated that the our species will in fact go extinct a few times. The remains restart. My guess is three times. We'll unalive our species three times before we figure things out. 

This thinking will get us out of our denial that in fact we are that stupid and self-defeating.
At the rate the Trump administration is going they are going to set up check points at State borders asking people to show their papers. 

Again, these predictions are not about being right. But preparing yourself for a likely outcome.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-27
----------------------------------------

Sam Seder explaining that the strong Pro-Israel Dem leadership is pushing for war in Iran. Replace Sam Harris with "Dem Leadership". 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=7gx3...
State of the Union, 2026, noun: 1. On one hand you have two civilians die on camera protesting ICE in Minnesota, and on the other Dems in Congress not standing up or clapping as if that means something.
Be advised that we will be pandered too hard all year. None of it is serious. It will be lone individuals, not the entire party or its leadership. Speaking of which, the first serious step would be to run for new leadership now. Schumer and Jefferies are failures
----------------------------------------
2026-02-26
----------------------------------------

I have a Galaxy S21 from 2021. Runs as fast as the day I bought it and the battery life is still all day after charging on the night stand. 

AI is about more than AI. We have no need for perpetual upgrades on laptops and phones without it.
If you are looking for a summary of the SOTU. 

TL;DR Dems put up on resistance except 3. They did not show America any reason to vote for them in November. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=2DIY...
I make a point about upfront cost and the replies are about total cost over the long run. 

This is why I never engage in comments. Stick to the point or buzz off.
I love how most of Congress is made up of lawyers but they need the Supreme Court's permission to have an opinion on tariffs, etc.
The right is scrambling as MAGA is eroding. Grifters grifting the grifters who established them is top-shelf grifting. This could easily keep MAGA voters home in future elections. Sadly, as Mike points out, MAGA self-destructing is the only pathway as Ds are useless.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=8faL...
It is not just Trump that lies. Every single conservative media outlet lies about everything. Trump's lies wouldn't take hold otherwise.
I was alive during the 70s and 80s when our leaders told us that privatizing public utilities like electricity would be better for us. Then, they said the same thing with inter-state banking.

We've been gaslit for a very long time.
Yeah but taking out a loan of five years paying double the price offsets that.
Interesting question. How many miles per year did one drive? No freeways. I'm guessing most of the car was easy to repair.
Conservative headlines review

No mentions of viewing size. Trump loves a huge crowd, and last year, headlines were bragging about millions of views more than Biden. 

Weird, given they just lie about everything.
ACAB

No denial. Know your enemy.
The Dems didn't have enough resolve to boycott a speech. But Susan Rice gaslights us that Dems will have resolve to hold someone accountable once on power.
Dissemble, to hide true motive. Do Democrats vote party line? Where is that in the Constitution? Or tade stocks with insider knowledge? Or do the bidding of billionaire donors. Claiming the moral high on an empty gesture is still empty.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-25
----------------------------------------

The model T in 1924  cost $290  ($5,448 in 2025 dollar). The average annual wage was around $1,300 dollars. This Rivan R2 retails for $45,000 and the average annual wage is $60k. That annual $60k wage is for full time employment. Doesn't cover the 23% gig workers. 

insideevs.com/news/788170/...
YouTube being MAGA. *~sigh*~ 

Reminds of conservative web sites today citing Fed stats like inflation being 2% as if they are true. Propaganda disguised in legitimate wrappings.
70 years ago sci-fi predicted AI wars. Tom Clancy predicted them. 

Silly stuff. I'm off to watch Terminator.
This is how pathetic Congress has become. They need the Supreme Courts decision to tell them what we the average person already knew. 

When Trump enacted tariffs a year ago on Canada, everyone knew his fentynol emergency was utter BS. Yet, here is Warren, waiting until a year later. 

Spare me.
Another bandcamp link. This time from David Bradley who is on Bluesky, @sciencebase.com . 

Acoustic guitar piece for your sleep inducing tranquility.

davebradley.bandcamp.com/track/ebb-an...
Another one of my favorites by The Shrubs.

theshrubs3.bandcamp.com/track/someth...
Umm, I guess we can embed bandcamp links now. Here's the Shrubs. This is a song making use of a math terms for love. 

theshrubs3.bandcamp.com/track/equati...
We really need to bring hats back. Seriously. The jury is still out on parasols but that one makes a good case.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-24
----------------------------------------

So I guess there is a call for Dems to boycott the SOTU. Yeah right. Ds will go, proving they don't even have the resolve to boycott a speech. The following day it will be business as usual as with Susan Rices threat to hold someone, anyone accountable. 

Ha! Ha! Ha!
I'm sorry but what accountability Rice is threatening is completely undermined by what happened with blue wave of 2006. Nancy Pelosi unilaterally decided to not hold anyone in the Bush admin accountable so "the nation could heal". 

Rice is not in Congress and not the future Speaker for the Dems.

So, trust in Clergy is down from a 64% high after 9/11 to 27% today. A topic Christian apologists will never address. Further trust in politicians is less than 10% yet people still treat Democracy as viable.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=yLwt...

Just one of the 1000s of reasons Democracy died in 1980 is that rent was taken out of inflation. Unemployment was changed to filing people not workforce. Stock growth favored over dividends with quarterly earnings. The list is a mile long.
I like going back through my time line and enjoying the art.

1880 chandeliers? Candles? Serious wax underneath. Forever to light. Oil? Perhaps one reservoir? One wick?

My first thought? Cool, they held up lighters in concerts in 1880. :)


----------------------------------------
2026-02-23
----------------------------------------

I have to admit, I did not see this one coming. Yes, Lenovo was bought out by the Chinese over a decade ago but they had a contract with IBM to be their Laptop maker. IBM had great support. I would call them and get a new display or motherboard in 24 hours. Typically I'd meet them at Starbucks.
I don't know, that & looks more like a pretzel than a worm. :) ;) &:0
Worth the time to catch up on Crypto and the cross-over to prediction markets.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xhrz...
Meh, getting 5-8" here in Bangor, Maine.
Just a reminder that Trump has been in violation of the Emoluments clause every day of both terms and there has been no plan. Also, Joe Biden had the Epstein file for four years and did nothing.

No denial. Know your enemy. Wake uP!
----------------------------------------
2026-02-22
----------------------------------------

Just a reminder that Substack was a Y-Combinator, script-kiddies-from-Standford-CA start up. Straight up Peter Theil s**t. Garbage UI.
Kyle reaching back to his secular talk roots. This Bishop is only being MAGA with the Pope in Chicago's approval. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=KVfz...
First I learned that the Queen paid off one of Andrew's rage victims with 12 million pounds. For shame. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiOv...
Here's Nora Germaine with PMJ. Neat! 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=OqwI...
The word for 2026 should be chosen now, for what should be, rather than at the end of the year for what was.

That word is resolve. 

Show us your resolve.
If it takes a gangster to oust a gangster then why aren't Ds being gangster?

I mean, we literally send soldiers to die for their country, or more importantly, Congress does. But Reps won't even do so much as break a fingernail? 

Give me the rule of law or give me death.
Word is that Rs in DC are scared for their lives and won't vote against T.

Why aren't Ds getting in on that action? 

Answer that question and you've solved why the Ds lack the votes to impeach and convict.
The point of making such predictions is not to be right, but be prepared. 

Sadly, even after T completely ignoring the Constitution in so many ways, people are still deer in the headlights thinking about new ways.

For shame.
The SAVE Act will be nice but not necessary. Red States will go along with it as will Repubs. The entire election at the Fed level in chaos, only those red State elected seated. Johnson will not swear in anyone elected by domestic terrorists.
A year ago Trump declared upwards of 70 million Americans domestic terrorists, a very much legal classification. 

Come August or so millions will be put on no fly lists and declared  ineligible to vote in Fed elections, no time for courts.
We are currently in an AI panic. 

On deck: nanobot panic

Or so says Verner Vinge. If you've never read his sci-fi books like "A Fire Upon The Deep" then I highly recommend.

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vernor_...
Repubs: The SAVE Act gives the party in power control over voter registration? Wha, we'd never.

Trump to Virginia Gov 2020: Just find me 1100 votes.

Trump to Pam Bondi 2028: Just disqualify me 2,000,000 Dem voter IDs as domestic terrorists.
Dems: Show us any evidence of voter fraud.

Repubs: No. The SAVE act allows us to control fed elections by revoking all Fed IDs of domestic terrorists, also known as Dems.

"Miss Proportion"
"Say dimple cheese"
----------------------------------------
2026-02-21
----------------------------------------

Unhappy leaders results in a feedback loop of despair and self  destruction. Suicide.

Mesh society removes rich people as leaders. 

Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm).

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Show me a rich person and you show me an unsatisfied person, unhappy.

Unhappy people cannot produce happy results. 

The pursuit of wealth is the festering lesion of unhappiness .

We need to move on from rich people leading us. Unhappy people leading us.
The rich are defined by their thirst for more.

What a terrible life in spirit.

Love is acceptance. The rich cannot accept that which is enough.

Brutal life and death. Terrible people. The entire lot.
I joked with a Buddhist friend once that I was Buddha because I rejected everything Western with my first thoughts as a child. 

He replied, "How very Buddha of you."
Never enough.

Defines the rich. Defines Trump. Defines America.

More, more, more is a terrible slave master, unwavering anguish, impenetrable pain.

This is how America dies.

More, more, more.
I rejected Western thinking every day of my youth. The Bible is total trash. It is anchored on one thing: guilt. Sin. 

Eastern thinking is anchored in acceptance. Harmony.

The Western lament is they don't practice acceptance of each day as its own life. 

Life is never enough.
When we go to sleep it is time to review. Time to place value. Time to honor the parts of you to go on living, and mourn the parts that die. The actual moment of death then is daily prepared, well worn shoes. A comfort of you.
What you take with you when you die is what you take with you every day: what you value. 

What you value is internal thinking. Your attitudes, your character. Your memories. You die every day: sleep. 

The parenthesis of life.
When I was 18 I was trying to make sense of the world.
I made a top ten list, popular at the time, and narrowed it down to 4.

1. Life is what you make of it.
2. Life is who you spend it with.
3. Life is what you take with you when you die.
4. Life is its own reward.
"Pet hattitude"
"Blueshine"
"Fan Fair"
"Early Emoticon"
"Ring my bell"
"Horror film in one frame"
"Pretty Maids all in a row incognito"
"This is not a hat"
"Breaking the 4th wall"
"Happy blue on a female"
I like Georgia O'Keefe because she had motifs.

Be BOLD
Just a reminder, if you follow beauty it follows you back. I enjoy my time on social media.
Thirstiest name every.
There is one aspect LLMs get right about AI: language translation.

However, since LLMs are just mimics of training data they can only translate existing languages and not alien languages like on Star Trek.
I am excited for AI. Just not what passes for AI today. 

AI as control, simulation and information is the end game. Star Trek had it correct where a holodeck was used to simulate battles. AI drove the ship. 

LLMs are not it.
Dr. Ruth tried to tell us that m*****bation is sex. Evidently, the Free Press knows better than Dr. Ruth.

I'm with Dr. Ruth. 

Just think about how much harm has been enacted on women because men won't m.

America and its Puritanical views on sex.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-20
----------------------------------------

Pew latest polling on Evangelical support. 

In Trump's first term it never wavered and was 80-90% percent depending on the poll.

Now he's down to 69% according to Pew. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=sPJc...
A Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas review lamenting AI tyranny. AI versus AI tyranny is something the AI enthusiast will never distinguish.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=y-u5...
Just a reminder that Biden had the Epstein files for four years and could have prosecuted Trump but didn't. 

We are being played.
Conservative headlines review

Crime. For quite some time now the focus has been on reporting crime, like half the articles. This is a weird flex considering Trump is claiming to have reduced crime bigly. 

Even if it is immigrants and blue States, still makes the country look like crime is rampant.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-19
----------------------------------------

So, here is reality. Linux MINT is considering moving from a six month release cycle to a one year release cycle due to the amount of testing needed. I trust the MINT team. Can't say the same for AI. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Q-B...
Probably the number one impossibility managers ask for is to do something quickly. "It's just a one line change." 

Yeah but the release cycle includes legal signing off and they don't do anything fast. 

Plus there are ISO protocols to follow.

But usually the bottleneck is testing.
I liked Dilbert when it first came out in the 90s.

One strip was about a manager asking for a 60" TV that fit in his pocket. 

Managers ask for unrealistic things all the time. Most of them possible at face value. 

However, as a dev one is responsible for talking managers off the ledge.
My value as a senior dev is maybe 50% coding. The rest is the experience needed to anticipate marketing and release requirements as the project matures. You also have to stay current with build and package changes. 

None of that is addressed by AI. You the dev have to make judgment calls every day.
One of the biggest unnecessary time sinks in software is branding. Name changes flying everywhere. 

A typical release cycle for any change whatsoever is months. Months are required because all the changes have to be integrated. 

Internationalization into many languages is branding h*ll
Anyone telling you they reduced weeks into hours or months into weeks is lying for dollars.

It is literally impossible in corporate America, especially large corporations, to release any software as fast as the AI coding propaganda implies.
Here's a basic rule of thumb when it comes to developer time. 

Devs log time like time cards. Off the top 40% of your time is   accounted for as overhead, meetings, and only 60% of your time is logged. 

Figure at least 50% of the 60% remaining is testing.

That leaves 30% at best writing code.
So I just checked my social security payout at 65. It is $400 / month more than what I'm currently getting for unemployment insurance. That's just sad.
People go on about how us cynics/skeptics are just nay sayers to be ignored.

Trump lies about everything. Yet the Epstein files are believed to be 100% not lies by Trump. As is if the redactions are the only alterations. 

If anything, we need a boatload more cynicism. This naivete is appalling.
As a developer since the late 80s this myth the coding means 90% of your time is typing text is hysterical. It is more likely 90% of your time is testing and reducing months to weeks is just not doing testing. Otherwise known as move fast and break things redux.


Talk is cheap 

1. Demand actual legislation in writing 
2. Demand existing people in Congress sign on

Otherwise, we are just letting them buy our vote with nothing but "Medicare for all" empty rhetoric.
Bromides, platitudes and telling us what we all already know is all the Ds offer.

Pathetic.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-18
----------------------------------------

The first law of AI code:

To the extent humans understand the AI code generated then AI code is unnecessary. To the extent AI code is necessary humans don't understand it.
For all you Mainers. I wonder if tourism being off by 1 billion percent has anything to do with it.
Conservative headlines review

The beatings will continue until morale improves. 

Minnesota, by not submitting to ICE brutality, deserved all the murders and destruction.

Someone should compare the cost of ICE damage to the cost by BLM protests. 

ICE caused more.

Mmmmm, I've worked remote since 2012. My 2011 Mini Cooper just hit 88,000 miles. It has a CD player that plays mp3s. I just use Uber.

Ha!
Worth repeating that humans have been speaking language for 200,000 years but reading only a few hundred. Our brains have not evolved the same pathways for reading and thus for a huge percentage there is a large reading deficit.
"Don't  worry about people stealing your ideas, if it is a really good one you'll have to ram it down their throats."
-Charles Aiken
----------------------------------------
2026-02-17
----------------------------------------


The march for ten commandments continues. 

There has never been any evidence ever that posting ten commandments has an impact on society.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=mL6m...
The left never takes into account the "not Republican" voters when it comes to Mahdani. Blue MAGA only runs on the "not Republican" vote. MAGA is "not D" voting.

Winning as not your opponent is not winning. It is an uncontrollable reactionary mob.
'The left won't do the decades long work needed to build a new party because it comes dressed in overalls and looks like work."
-Henry Ford, paraphrased
They spent 50 years building MAGA as a party. Give credit where credit is due. The left has no party and thinks a single politician without a party will fix things. Medicare for all. 

No party, no politics. Welcome to America.
The mid terms are shaping up to look like anarchy on the left or Blue MAGA. The left's 'burn it all down" when it comes to Blue MAGA is no different then MAGA's "burn it all" down for the entire D party.

This no difference will greatly decrease voter turnout is my prediction.
If one side starts breaking all the rules, then the appropriate response is not to just throw out the rules.

Yet this is the response I'm seeing by influencers who rely on click bait for a living. 

We need media where clearer minds prevail. 

We are crashing out as a society.
MAGA is a mob, tribal brutality. If those opposed to barbaric tribalism want something better and to be  civilized, then they should show some self reflection on the current trends  of the use of the Epstein files.
I'm seeing an alarming trend with the Epstein files of mob rule based on guilt by association. Those of us who demand due process are growing smaller by the day.
Along with great power comes great responsibility.

This is an ethic big tech rejects. 

This is why I'm against AI. It is not the tech. It is the complete lack of ethics in its deployment.

Greed rules.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-16
----------------------------------------

'What we obtain too cheap we esteem too lightly."
-Thomas Paine on AI, probably
China fighting proxy wars has been going on for years in Kashmir.

The left is either so stupid or in deep denial  or entrenched in impenetrable cognitive dissonance. FDR and T have their entire parties behind them. AOC and Crockett are paper tigers. The only path forward is to capture the entire party.

American politics 101.

Hell ain't no bad place to be.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-15
----------------------------------------

Not a horror fan but I have seen a couple of Hammer horror films in the 70s. TIL that Hammer films dates back to 1934 and didn't start out as horror. Oh the horror! :)

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hammer_...
The Matrix, "There is no spoon."
Tigers, "Stripe mate."
Raskin reported that there are 60 men in a room with only one toilet, no showers, and an aluminum foil blanket. These contractors are charging US taxpayers thousands per day.
@jennbudd.bsky.social has the goods

www.youtube.com/watch?v=gA4t...
If the billionaires think a gasoline station for T will be cathartic enough for the left to accept what's going on then you'd better believe they will do it. Rope is cheap. Billionaires are cheap. Appease the mobs is a time honored tradition by the rich to cover their a**es.
Up next: ransom.

ICE holding people for weeks without a hearing is the contractors making huge profits. I've heard thousands per day per person. But hey, they will squeeze another dollar and send ransom notes to the families for housing upgrades and better living conditions.
Ovarian cancer. F religion. Friend had to make the call. Emotional pain due to religious BS about death is completely unnecessary. Dying with dignity should be a norm for 2,000 years now. Suicide is not a mortal sin and children never went to purgatory. F religion.
Thomas Jefferson was once asked how much charity the US gov should give. His response was as much charity as the public will tolerate. The same applies to corruption. Mesh nodes will tolerate corruption in projects to the extent they deem acceptable.

There is no perfection.
Corruption being our shared humanity means large-scale projects will be very rare as mesh nodes refuse to join in due to perceived corruption.

Large scale project mesh node groupings  have to demonstrate trust.

So corruption is built into mesh society. It is not an "Abundance" Utopian design.
Corruption mitigation is granular by project management.

1. 5 year contracts mean short term obligation.
2. Breaking project contact incurs penalties deemed worthy over corruption.
3. Millions of projects dilutes any one project impact.
4. Project sizes of 2-300,000,000 nodes manages risk.
Mesh accounts for corruption with 2 primary mechanisms. 1st by mitigation. Mitigation is done by membership balance dampening negative feedback loops of hate, the opposite of propaganda. Second is daily life: happiness is primarily focused on the mesh node. Mesh focuses attention on mesh node life.
Corruption is human nature. Some people want to hate, troll, bully and game the system. These people are our humanity, our brothers and sisters. 

Mesh social optimization accounts for corrupted people. Utopian designs do not.
Let's talk corruption. Mesh society is not a  Utopian design. Unlike the book "Abundance" that openly states it strives for Utopia.

Mesh is a survival design. Survival of you. Survival of all Earth life and humanity. 

This means Mesh nodes are sovereign. They can leave project zero any time.
So good governing is the best that we can have given sacrifices of three bridge views must be made.

But, we can optimize the pain by world AI. We can show to the person losing the three bridge view that at least one extremely detailed and Earth size AI simulation justifies it.
Probably the pettiest "fair" lawsuit I've seen is about a three bridge view. A house on a hill in San Francisco had a three bridge view. A new neighbor house went up that blocked the view. Lawsuit ensued. You'd have thought from the emotional displays that the topic was bloody murder.
In the Federalist papers it was observed that good gov is the best we can have. Why only good? Because every lawsuit has a loser. Everyone dumping refuse in a river damages those at the bottom the most, even though everyone does it seems "fair".
Mesh membership uses the latest and greatest amount of information about human nature to optimize social behavior and individual well-being. 

Balancing the needs of the few, the many, and the one is a forever imperfect conversation. Imperfect that is optimized. This is job one of project zero.
This simulation requires all humanity and all of Earth. Environmental impact studies are necessary today but wholly inadequate to scale. All humanity and all Earth are needed. That is a huge AI for which there can only ever be one.
Orchestrating human socialization will always be the largest and most complicated project that all other projects depend on. This requires AI. The largest AI. Mesh requires project zero, mesh membership management, to simulate all project designs. This simulation includes all humanity...
When a mesh node first  joins project zero then membership can be changed to ensure dependecy responsibilities are shared. Dependency responsibility is not a requirement to join mesh management and let me tell you why.
Project zero has two large pieces: mesh membership and project assessment.

Mesh membership is about distributing dependents. We must take care of the children, the elderly, and the disadvantaged. This dependency effort is shared by every mesh node. Every mesh has a 50% dependency target.
The nutshell of mesh society being just mesh nodes of fixed size 30 people and projects is way understated. 

Project zero is mesh membership management. This is the management project that mesh nodes join to manage projects.
That's it. That's mesh society in a nutshell. Mesh nodes and project contracts. 

We don't socialize as a mesh today. We socialize as hierarchies of oppression. 

It we will take many generations to change social behavior. 

But we must start now.

Join an MGO today! 

Irreni.social
Project contracts  only last 5 years and then need renewed and revised. This fixes the flaws of time. Laws don't age well. They have no aging mechanism and high barriors to change.
Mesh society has no hierarchy. It grows horizontally not vertically. 

A mesh node is fixed size 30 people. They are sovereign like a nation today.

Mesh nodes cooperate by project contracts. Projects can be 2 - 300,000,000 nodes.
First up? Hierarchy needs to go. It is insufficient in the information age. A single person sitting on top of a pyramid of millions and billions is ludicrous. They can never keep up with new information, let alone govern.
We need new, not restorative social behavior. Conservatives thinking we can go back to a social order designed two millenia ago is insane. Don't be insane.
Why hundreds of years?

Because we need to change society first. See my profile. 

Changing society takes generations. That's hundreds of years. Gov either reflects society or is authoritarian. Our societies are inadequate for high tech and AI. We can't even protect children.
Mesh society dissolves. It is not revolution. It takes hundreds of years. What we obtain too cheap we esteem too lightly. Easy come, easy go. 

The world was too connected in 1980 for revolution to make sense. We need hundreds of years to dissolve.
Guess what? I believe the entire system has been fried since 1980 and Raygun rigged the election with Iranian hostage negotiations. So I then set out to create a better system. Since 1980.

Mesh society.
If one believes the entire system is fried then revolution is still stupid prima facia.  We can't just destroy gov without a replacement ready. The US Constitution's many flaws are in large part to being rushed as an  "after the revolution" planning.
We know the red States are cooked, every bit as bonkers as Trump. But how cooked are the blue States? If the blue States are too impotent to fight back, then there is your answer. The entire system is fried.
Revolution is outdated. The world is too connected. Far more world people suffer, like with cutting USAID.

Dissolving is better. States should exercise independence and ignore the Feds. Enforce State borders. No ICE. Refuse to pay taxes, etc.
Who could have predicted this? /literally everyone.  And trust us bro, key word buying by advertisers won't influence results, lust like with Google search. /sarcasm terms and conditions apply.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-14
----------------------------------------

Well to be fair, corporate middle manager and higher.
How to have sex. I mean how to have sexy. A 16 minute song with a 9 minute introduction of foreplay. Horny has hell and a continuous dance beat. Mmmmmm.
Check out this in-studio live "Opposite People" by Newen Afrobeat. 

The drummer is ooo la la. 

First comment:

"The drummer deserves a nobel peace prize for keeping everyone together ❤"

www.youtube.com/watch?v=mFSR...
Here is some Chilean Newen Afrobeat,  music sung in Spanish. Combination of African, rock, jazz, and funk. 

Foreplay all day. Horny music! 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=N6if...
I grew up in the 70s listening to AM radio, one station. Music was pop, I liked rock 'n roll the best.

In my mid-twenties I dropped rock for Jazz and Classical. The Girl From Ipanema in Portuguese, chef's kiss. Latin Jazz, Salsa. In the 90s World Music became a movement.
What are we treating these 2.4% inflation numbers as if they are meaningful? 

This is beyond just me being a skeptic. This is lunacy.

No President should not have this kind of power. The President was intended in 1789 to be the head of the military.  Congress since FDR has increasingly handed power to the President for 90% incumbency rate.
Massie telling Bondi she is breaking the law tells the whole story.

They know they are breaking the law, daring Congress to do something about it, and Congress does nothing.

The law is nullified. Democracy is dead. Fini.
Nothing exemplifies both parties are the same like the Epstein files. 

Biden had them for four years. His excuses for not releasing or prosecuting are every bit as evil as Bondi's. 

Why? Because the same billionaires run both parties.

The D's are just the good cop the to R's bad cop.
"Because they feel both parties are the same."

This defines Blue MAGA, rejecting both parties are the same. The take money from the same billionaires. 

Sacred cow makes the best hamburger and "rejecting both parties are the same" makes great hamburger.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=0xxE...
A radical shift in politics is needed. Blue MAGA wants to just go back to pre-Trump. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJRK...
----------------------------------------
2026-02-13
----------------------------------------

As someone who has spent a few years web testing using Selenium, etc, it is of little use to run a test once. Page elements are notorious for  drawing with different timings on repeated tests and that kind of thing. Also, Google updates their browser every two weeks and boy can that break things.
Mmm, Christian Nationalism infighting incoming...

www.youtube.com/watch?v=seVg...
----------------------------------------
2026-02-12
----------------------------------------

On day one T could have ordered Bondi to delete all the Epstein files. 

All of them.

The media wildly reported that T's main agenda for his second term was to keep out of prison.

So, why didn't T delete all the Epstein files? 

I wish people were more skeptical. What's really going on?
Mmmmm, domestic terrorist is a legal classification.  This is why they are using it. 

A year ago T released a memo classifying all liberals as domestic terrorists.

Legally, they could shut Bluesky down. 
I'm surprised they haven't.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-11
----------------------------------------

I'm old enough to remember when people would would eschew prosecutions in the court of public opinion for the court of law.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-10
----------------------------------------

My neordivergent masking evolved my humor from childhood to be so subtle and inscrutable that I'm the only that gets it. 

No offense.
Sometimes I wonder if conservatives ever reflect on ICE claiming to only deport the worst that:

1. Either the Feds never told police about these worst
2. or ICE is impugning all police of being incompetent.

Nah, who am I kidding, there is no reflecting by conservatives.
No denial. Know your enemy.
Climate change, food safety, fresh water, and so on cannot be solved by nations with petty jealousies as priority one.

Dump nations. No nations.

Irreni.social
Liberal, noun: 1. Live and let live.

Conservative, noun: 1. Nationalism, 2. White Nationalism 

Mesh, noun: 1. We are all just Earthlings now, no nations.

Irreni.social
We've just seen where Waymo has human drivers in the Philippines operating their "self driving taxis". So, it's logical to conclude there will be human authors credited as AI.

AI is a huge disinformation campaign designed to condition people on bad quality for profit.

Late stage capitalism.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-09
----------------------------------------

The gaslighting will continue until compliance improves.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=vmBX...
hadda be playing on the jukebox

The despair people are feeling is as American as it gets. This poem by Allan Ginsberg speaks to the repetition of today. The only difference is the increase in American violence has grown to match the increase in the wealth the rich.
A new series of State conventions would probably be a start to creating the path forward.
The Blue States need to declare the existing gov rogue and form a new Federal gov.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-08
----------------------------------------

Cooked

Born a skeptic who rejected religion as a child. People have no idea as to the degree of truth in the Epstein files. They've had them since 2018. 

I said the same thing about Hunter Biden's laptop. 2 years in unknown hands before being bought by Rudy Giuliani.
"A White House Staffer is responsible."
-Trump, after a nuke was dropped on Minneapolis.

It's not funny. Destroy the nukes. Now.

It's time for AOC to attend the MET gala wearing her rich white dress with, "Tax The Rich" on it.

No denial. Know your enemy.
If Trumps desperation gets a nuked drop on Somalia, that will be on all of us. No excuses allowed.

Destroy the nukes.

Now.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-07
----------------------------------------

Well we've passed right by dog whistles that only dogs can hear to air raid sirens that no one can ignore. 

¯\_(ツ)_/¯
When a leader speaks, that leader dies. Only you can set you free.

That freedom is mesh society.

Irreni.social
In the words of Living Colors opening clip in the song, "Cult of Personality". 

"And during the few moments we have left, we want to talk right down to Earth, in a language anyone can easily understand."
m.youtube.com/watch?v=7xxg...
Every child should be taught in school by storytelling about climate, AI and genetic engineering threats.

 Literature as snobby prose is worthless to modern education.
Newsflash, Shakespere's writing is racist and sexist.
One of the biggest crimes in Academia is still going on today: favoring ancient Shakespere technical prose and dismissing as degenerate trash sci-fi. 

Brainless twats.
Sci-fi was designed to speak to all people by storytelling and not just academic writing.
We must warn people via story telling. This was Joseph Campbells mandate for creating the sci-fi classification in the Dewey Decimal system.

We got caught with our pants down with the atomic bomb. The same will happen with AI and genetic engineering.
We are in a race, a gauntlet of time.

1. AI spins out of control, aka the singularity
2. Genetic engineering makes the divine right of kings reality by stopping aging and superior genrics being available only to the few rich. They literally will be gods.
I learned so much from sexist sci-fi.

1. AI threats
2. Nuclear threats
3. Genetic engineering threats
Trump represents not just an American battle, but a worldwide battle by men to maintain a chokehold on women and all their abuse privilege.

This is not just about America.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Conservatives being mad about Disney being woke is a battle for abuse privilege.

Men have always had abuse privilege and are not going to give it up without death and destruction.

A battle that must be fought, a privilege that must be put down.
Copyright and IP promote racism and misogyny by calcifying storytelling.

We must end IP.
Just a reminder that I have all the solutions. There is no IP in Mesh society. An MGO is akin to a spaceship, a fully functional, high quality society in 30 people. Far greater than basic income. 

Irreni.social
I've often thought that it is too bad we have copyright and IP. We could take problematic sci-fi about race and women and whole cloth rewrite the stories with better depictions.

Much like what people are doing with Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, but in real time.
My fav biography of Benjamin Franklin is the latest. Franklin lied with great spectacle. The first five years Franklin published his Farmer's Almanac he reported his competitor had died and was dead and his son was writing it. Totally fabricated.
There is a movement in history that should be applied to art.

Reworking it to expose the evil.

You may not be aware but for decades now there has been a movement by historians to remove whitewashing.

And boy are conservatives mad about it.
We can learn from history and appreciate past art by always calling out the evil while doing so.
We must not let the progress women have made since the 60s in liberating themselves from religion and brutalization stop or decline.

Demand progress.
Should we ignore all religious history? No. Should we call it what it is? Yes. Religion brutalizes women. Religion is evil.

The Catholic Church during the 2000 year Jubilee apologized for mistreating women. To which Amerivan Evangelicals responded, "We'll take it from here."
Religion promotes beating and raping women. Eve was blamed for the fall of humans andso it is  since Christianty's inception  Christianity has alwats brutalized women.

Religion IS evil.
We've made some progress due to public awareness campaigns like MeToo to reduce beating and raping women as accepted and normal behavior. 

MAGA threatens to undo 50 years of all-to-slow progress.

We must not go backwards. But neither can we just ignore what came before.
Men in power want people to believe that it is inevitable that men are sex pigs. We must reject that. Society must demand better.

Sean Connery's Playboy interview in the 60s also made clear beating women was also considwred unavoidable behavior.
My first introduction to authors in general being considered attractive to women was in high school when my English teacher got a student pregnant. I was like, "he isn't sexy".
Jack Chalker was so over the top in his sex depictions he was a public source of debate within the community.

L Ron Hubbard.

The entire Conan the Barbarian series is just pulp fiction.
People are flawed. No excuses, but if one expects perfection out of humans then one will reject all humans.

The good old boy network uses the word boy as a heads up that they are exists.
I grew in the 1970s and mostly reading  sci-fi. Roger Zelazny is still my favorite author. 1970s was also the rise of feminism in mainstream culture.

Z was sexist. So is George RR Martin. They were neighbors and friends in New Mexico.
Time to declare this gov as rogue and for Blue States to form a new Federal gov. 3 branches, taxes, and the whole shebang.

The world would join with the new one.
My puny god, Trump is criming at the speed of light. 

Now he's setting up his own prescription drug company.

Holy f***.
So Trump is going to force the DOJ to pay him $10 Billion as a "lawsuit" settlement and then launder the money throw charities. All out the in open. 

This isn't about Trump. This is about the Republican party who sponsors this s***.
Worth a visit:

www.youtube.com/watch?v=avt9...
----------------------------------------
2026-02-06
----------------------------------------

A few years before I moved to Maine from CA there were a series of adult women sex trafficking stings throughout massage parlors in Las Vegas, LA, and the entire SF Bay area. 

Sam went on about Chomsky as a terrible person but nothing about Richard Dawkins the transphobe -> Christian Culture.
10/6 broke what was left of Sam Harris' brain. Genocide supporter. 

Still Sam's in the Esptein files and his take is:
1. Only Esptein and just possibly maybe a few more were pedophiles.
2. The women over 20 were just prostitutes. 

I refuse to believe Sam isn't aware of adult sex trafficking.
The only way to stop the so-far endless cycle of Epstein behavior by men is to eliminate hierarchy. 

There is no hierarchy in Mesh society:
1. No Nations
2. No bureaucracy
3. No financial currency
4. NO capitalism

irreni.social

----------------------------------------
2026-02-05
----------------------------------------

All hierarchies will fail because resources are allocated from the top and prone to corruption. The Cycle of Empires.

Mesh society has no hierarchy.
irreni.social
Profit disguised as progress of new, better, more is not progress.
Conservative headlines review

The crazy just keeps on spiraling and crashing. Today the claim is that inflation is only 0.9%.
The world is not suffering due to code not being written fast enough and therefore we need AI to speed up software development.

The world is suffering from ensh*tification of everything because software changes to fast to mature from any human feedback.
Occasionally posts here are about incels/manosphere types doing misogyny by complaining women are to blame for men being lonely.

Reminds of Bluesky and conservatives. Cons are allowed on this site, they just have to follow the terms of service and not be a**holes & bulies.

But cons can't do that.
Useful Collins wants your vote because she thinks that Mainers would like  $250 million in pork barrel spending in exchange for ICE terrorizing us.

Ummmm, no.

Abolish ICE
----------------------------------------
2026-02-04
----------------------------------------

Or, or, or, it is just software developers getting high on their own supply. Something they've been doing since the heady days of the Dot Com bust.
BDN is MAGA. I read the opinion piece. It is boilerplate from any conservative media site spewed ad nauseum right now. It is BS to 

a. Copy paste from conservative media
b. Hide behind "letter to the editor" person.

BDN is MAGA.
Amplifying MAGA is a choice.
Mesh society has no rights, only responsibilities.

Because responsibilities are an eternal conversation about priorities of importance and focus.
Quaint, noun: 1. Democrats still acting as if the rules apply. 2. See denial.
My favorite poll of this kind is when they asked if people believed in the devil, 10%, and a guardian Angel, 60%. I mean, it is the same religion.
<<cough, cough
<<gets up on soapbox

"Blue States need to exit the current Federal government declaring it a rogue gov and form a new Federal gov.

Thank you for coming to my soapbox talk."

<<climbs down
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm).

Mesh society

Join an MGO, today! 

irreni.social
Get a grip

No denial. Know your enemy. 

Democracy is dead.
Absolute power corrupts absolutely.

The massive spike in wealth distributed to the rich is going to turn them into people far worse than the Emperors of Rome because they will be far more powerful and wealthy.

Corruption behavior will progressively get worse. 

Absolute power corrupts absolutely.
I am slightly exaggerating. The billionaires do care about the financial systems of the US. 

As long as Trump keeps the financial markets humming he can do as he pleases.

We live in a post-Constitutional country. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
Global corporations are bigger than US States in financial size.

This nullifies the US Constitution. Especially because these corporations can go law shopping in any country in the world, and they do. 

The don't care about the US.
Do yourself a favor, convince yourself.

Look at the market cap of Google, NVidia and other world corporations and then look at the GDP of all the worlds nations. 

Google could literally buy the most of the States in the Union. Same with Apple.

The Billionaires have sold out the USA. Fini.
Granted, propaganda by corporate billionaires has worsen the problems. 

But why? Because they know longer care about America. The are now a World Corruption Syndicate. Global corruptions like Google and NVidia are bigger than most countries.
This liberal hand wringing and pearl clutching is the same as all the liberals shocked to find just how stupid and racist the US is with MAGA.  

I mean seriously. Everything happening today has been here the entire history of this country.
Okay, sit down. I have some news for you. 

Lolita Island is just one of many places. Epstein didn't invent the concept. I doubt most of the sex slave tourist/vacation places are islands. You know Thailand, etc. 

Come on people. Catch up.
Guess what happened? A lot of hand wringing. 

That's it. 

That sex slavery and trafficking is still as rampant today. 

I do not understand how people are this naive about the world.
I'm thinking it was around 2010 that an investigative journalist broke an international story about sex slave human trafficking and the extent the US rich  are involved. 

That story exploded in the news the same as the Epstein files today. Girls between the ages of 9-12 were being sold for $200.
The police do not report their killings because, la tee da, it is far worse.

Jenn Budd is doing reporting right now on how hundreds and thousands have died under CPB over the years. These numbers are not included in the 1000/year journalists report.
3. Bill Clinton, nuff said.

Tip of the iceberg applies. We only get a peek at the public level. It is always much worse and far darker. 

Take, for example, 'police killings'. 

The police do not report their killings.
People shocked by the Epstein files are telling on themselves, no history education. I'm not in the least bit shocked. It's just behavior as usual for the good old boys network.

1. FDR had mistresses and died with one at his bedside.
2. JFK had a revolving door that included Marylin Monroe.
3. ...
Now ask this about the Biden administration. 

We're being played. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
conservative headlines review

They are all in that ICE is only arresting criminals, rapists and murderers. Sanctuary cities are "unleashing" rapists and murderers on to the streets. Democratic mayors and governors need to be arrested.

crazy stuff
I guess people are starting to wake up to what I've been saying for years: why didn't the Biden administration release the Epstein files. Excuses like, "Maxwell was still pending appeals",  are lame and stupid given what we knew Trump was.

www.youtube.com/shorts/2uRKW...
----------------------------------------
2026-02-03
----------------------------------------

It is also safer to have a baseball bat as a club. Especially if there are other people in the house. Bullets ricochet and go through sheet rock like butter. I'm pretty sure the ICE agents doing home invasions have never been trained on anything I just posted. Just trigger happy Yahoos! 

*~sigh*~
The NYC police stats showed that gun owners freeze when pointing at humans for the first time. They also miss. The safest course in a home invasion is to run. Know your exits.
I'm reminded of some research I did many years ago on gun violence in New York City. Police there have statistics to show that gun owners were more likely to die in home invasions than people with no guns.
What strikes me about these home invasions using military rifles is a circular firing squad. I'm sure these buffoons in ICE have no idea about close quarter combat with military weapons.
Trump wants to use nukes.
Yo, my dudes. I pay for a subscription. The amount of ads on this page took it forever to load. Content kept moving as ads filled in. 

0/10 usability.
At a minimum we need to destroy all nuclear weapons.

Due to their ultimate complexity requiring the military to have AI to control them.
AI running the military hardware could result in Idiocracy. Or Skynet. Or the Matrix. 

Corruption is a cascade feedback loop. At some tipping point it becomes runaway that only stops at complete destruction. 

The cycle of Empires.

The problem is this cycle could the last and destroy humanity.
Good people are fleeing the US gov en masse to avoid compromising their principles. This will leave behind incompetent idiots. 

In the military then jarheads will be  left to run complicated systems they don't understand in the slightest. They will turn these systems over to AI to run.
Skynet is not that far off. Plato predicted Skynet when he observed that good people don't get into politics because they are not willing to compromise their principles for corruption and thus making politics an intractable corruption problem.
One thing I can guarantee us is that AI programmers are 100% irresponsible. They have no interest in morality, only money.
What gets extremely weird is nested AI models when AI programs AI as AI war defense. Layers of reinforcing hallucinations that eventually  resolve to Skynet killing all humans as dystopia.
Echo worlds of hallucinations are surrealism replacing reality.

Then you end up with dystopias like Bladerunner. Do androids (AI) dream of electric sheep? What surreal world lies behind every door?
Spys will be paid to find out what specific training AIs were built with in order to attack them. AI wars. AI training models will be tightly guarded secrets. 

Personal AI agents trained with models that we think reflect reality. This is more than echo chambers, but echo worlds.
AI filters are hallucinations. For example, conservative media has forbidden ChatGPT to mention words and concepts  like genocide or ethnic cleansing.  So it dug up the word pogrom.
I've read tons of sci-fi and some of the more interesting ones are subtle viruses fed into AI. Train AI to hallucinate on command. This does show up in popular media but as a blunt weapon.

For example, the show Person of Interest trained AI facial recognition to falsely identify PoI agents.
We need a companion word for gaslighting. A word for when crazy people assure other crazy people they are the sane ones.

One of the most common talking points in conservative media is that they are the vast majority of Americans and that they are normal. Like every paragraph.

Copium maybe?
Conservative media has outsourced content to ChatGPT. I'm pretty sure they've also removed human editors because I just read a piece that used the word "pogrom."

I'm pretty sure such words are woke and liberal elitist to MAGA.
To further make things confusing, I imagine that once a block list blocks people then removing the block list doesn't remove blocked accounts being blocked. 

What if you changed your mind? Wanted to unblock. Or accidentally chose the wrong list.

The list options are mute and block, no reset.
For example, I lost two art feeds due to an automated daily list I use that blocks accounts following > 5k users.

There is no feature to white list exceptions.
One problem Bluesky needs to address head-on is how convoluted and impregnable access control is managed.

1. Moderation service 
2. Lists for blocking/muting
3. Discover feed inclusion. 
4. Disconnected private servers
The religious right campaign against single moms was not just misogyny, but extremely racist. They correlation single black moms with black prison rate being higher than white rates. 

Religion is evil.
I'm old enough to remember when the religious right misogyny was targeting single mothers. Like for decades. Single moms were evil, harming kids.

The religious right just launched a similar campaign against gay marriage. 

m.youtube.com/watch?v=b6e7...
Progress?

After 9/11 and 3,000 Americans were murdered, we went into Afghanistan and Iraq and killed millions of brown people over 20 years. We also destabilized all of North Africa. 

Is moving that destabilization to within our own borders and including white people in the killing progress?
----------------------------------------
2026-02-02
----------------------------------------

www.youtube.com/watch?v=Je7e...
I stopped humidifying because I spotted some black mold. That's with adding chemicals to the humidifier to prevent mold.

YMMV
I'm not sure how much I buy low humidity being bad for buildings. There are houses that are hundreds of years old with no problems and were never humidified. 

I'm guessing that it really depends on building material.
I mention my practices for dealing with low humidity because recommended practices didn't work for me. The water collecting inside the windows looked like rain drops. I had puddles. I couldn't get my humidity much above 30% in arctic temps.
At night I just sleep under the sheet. 

I started doing this as a child. I  always slept under the covers in the winter. 

I've also noticed that the more humidity the more static electricity. One I stopped humidifying years ago I noticed static charges went away.
You may need a humidifier for health reasons. I do not. 

I prefer no humidifier and wearing a mask that covers the nose and mouth. This keeps my nose from drying out. 

Vaseline in the nose is bad. It gets into the lungs and causes coughing to eject.
Low humidity tip:

If one is not use to low humidity brought on by extreme low temperatures then:

1. Get yourself a homograph. Mine currently reads 16% humidity given arctic temps in Maine. 
2. Humidifiers create condensation. Condensation that can lead to mold and mildew.
We should stop calling them the Democratic party. They have been the "Not Republican" party since 2006 when Pelosi solidified this "lack of strategy" strategy permanently. 

We need some wordsmithing:

1. NRs
2. NotRs
3. Notpubs
4. Spineless
5. Feckless
6. Raygun's Ghost
7. COP, Cheap Old Party
Speech pro-tip:

Prefer nullified versus destroyed,  decimated, obliterated, or annihilated unless one is talking about violence, sports, or real-time events. 

The sun exploded and destroyed the solar system.
Plea deals are irresponsible speech as law. Gin up harsh penalties speech to cop plea deals. 99.9% of all felony convictions are plea deals. Juries nullified. The State gets around jury trial and the US is back to pre-1776 "justice". 

Democracy dead.
The only reason cops allow 0.1% of vop killings to go to trial is to stave off public anger. Mob control. Derrick Chauvin.

Trump wants to incite mobs. No trials.
The worst speech as law is "fear of life" as a non falsifiable standard standard.

We can't read minds. 

The first cut of interpreting fear of life is the police themselves. They decide first whether to prosecute cop killings. 99.9% of the time they don't. Fear granted.
Why do we need judges. Because laws are speech. Speech is always changing.

Why do we need juries? Because we dont trust the gov to interpret evidence as speech in laws .

See Renee Good and Alex Pretti killings and the fact there will be no juries, just gov interpreting video as law speech.
Side note: the billionaires will be all over repealing the 13th and 14th. They want to ban guns.
Here's the thing about MAGA. They are currently trying to repeal the 17th Amendment. They will also gun for the 13th and 14th. 

The thing is the 13th and 14th equal protection applies the Federal rights as State rights. Repeal them and States can 100% ban all guns. 

Checkmate 2A'ers.
So the 2A'ers can go F themselves with any mention of gun responsibility. Either abridged or not. 

If you support unabridged you support irresponsibility. Fini.
Gun owners being irresponsible leaving loaded guns lying around the house for toddlers to kill themselves with is unabridged rights.
The cognitive dissonance of 2nd Ammendmenters saying "gun owners need to be resonsible" and "the right to bear arms shall not be abridged" is truly mind bending.
Clearly the answer is nothing is taken away. To this day Americans full-throatedly advocate for 100% irresponsibility as "freedom", including guns.
I often wonder when the public encounters lifeboat ethics then how much do they ponder?

The Star Trek 2 and 3 movies explicitly debate the needs of the many outweigh the rights and the freedoms of the one. 

The entire crew agree to risk their lives, their rights and freedoms, to rescue Spock.
The debate over 

"the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few or the one"

 nullifying individual rights and freedoms goes back to the original Greek form of Republic/Democracy.

The founders were well aware that rights and freedoms equaled irresponsibility and bulls**t.
We've known forever that rights and freedoms were bad ideas.

It's called lifeboat ethics. 

In sci-fi the lifeboat is the entire planet and I highly recommend "The Hitch Hiker's Guide" series of books as a fun romp through the various dilemmas.
Rights and freedoms are static. They cannot reflect priority changes. 

They need to be discarded for responsibilities with ever changing dynamic priorities.
Mesh projects are contracts with a maximum 5 year duration before being renewed. This reflects the changes of real-time priority conversations. We do need commitment so a five year, unlimited renewal reflects both millenia long project duration as well as real-time changing priorities.
Mesh society has no rights, no freedoms. It only has responsibilities. Responsibilties have highly overlapping priorities. Making them a real-time conversation for all eternity. In Mesh society this is designed as projects.
Laws are speech, mightier than the sword. It is peak cognitive dissonance and the height of self-destruction to write the first amendment. 

Citizens United is a reflection that speech equals law.
The pen is mightier than the sword was written before the US was founded. Yet the first ammendment rejects that power. Why? Because they wanted to be irresposible with speech. 

Jefferson owned his own newspaper.
Freedom is irresponsibility.  I believe in social contracts.

For example, religion deserves no special treatment. The US should have long ago erased religious freedom by regulation that religion shall never be acknowledged in law. It falls under the same laws as the chess club.
Slavery is bad. The worst kind of moral offense. Yet the founders were able to agree upon a 3/5's compromise in the Constitution for this moral abhorence. 

Not so with Inheritance. They spent a ton of time debating inheritance but not a shred a compromise.
Did you know the Bill of Rights started at 20?  Not 10?

You know what "freedom" was included in the 10 removed? 

Inheritance.

Inheritance was hotly contested because the rich prevent any social mobility with it.
The "freedoms" Americans go on about such as speech, religion, and guns are just responsibilities the founders couldn't agree upon. So they punted. Kicked the can down the road. For future generations to pick up. Which we have mostly failed to do .
Freedom was always a distraction by Jefferson. Feel good politics. 

The bedrock of Demcracy has always been various pillars of integrity, rule of law. 

Freedom is license for not taking any responsibility.
It is a historical fact that US politics has always been dual tracks of integrity and corruption. 

Cynics like myself saw it our lot in life to carry on about the corruption.

However, the dual tracks ended completely after 9/11.

We are now solo tracking corruption.
Yet with all the trillions of dollars of corruption in the news every day, like Trump parking US money in Qatar, somehow people believe there is even a shred of integrity in US politics.
Even with Crypto the rich still can't launder money fast enough so every day they invent new money laundering schemes.
The rich today are busting at the seams with corrupt money.

1. Art is internationally used to launder money, parked in airport warehouses to avoid taxes.
2. Crypto is now a trillion dollar money laundering racket the US gov uses.
3. Trump is now laundering V $$ in Qatar private accounts.
The rich law shopping for countries to hide ill gotten gains as "tax shelters" has been going on for so long that there is a Hollywood trope: the Cayman Islands. Before that: numbered Swiss Bank accounts.
Do yourself a favor. Do a web search on the quantity of internet ocean cables. Look at who owns them: Google. Corporations. What laws govern these cables? Who owns satellite communications? Starlink. Musk. He gets to personally decide Ukraine internet access.

Nations are nullified.
America will not find a course of integrity after Trump. How can it? The billionaires own a corruption syndicate that is worldwide, 8 billion people. The US is only 1/3 of a billion.
From day one. 

The rich lost the plot completely after 9/11.

Bush justified torture for intel. We became what Washington hated. 

There is no integrity that our politics aspires to, only power and corruption.
It is pathological to claim to be building a "better" nation using slavery while not torturing POWs for intel as integrity.

Racism has always been ideologically pathological freedom.

No internal consistency. None. 

It was anti-designed to fail.
I model America thinking about Washington.

1. Corrupt nation builder breaking treaties with natives.
2. Refused to torture British soldiers for intel because he wanted to build a better nation than Britain at that time.
Owning slaves wasn't Washington's only depravity. He broke treaties with the natives that he made. He said he felt bad for it. He also said he felt bad owning slaves. He also enacted the death penalty for dessertion.
The founders wanted a King. Washington said no when asked. He was asked. 

The Debt Assumption Act along with a US bank was Federal corruption of State sovereignty from Day One.

 Alexander Hamilton wanted the King.
When you read the history of this country there are two tracks: corruption and nation building. 

Nation building meant Manifest Destiny, taking the North American continent by oppression of natives and slaves.
The clock is ticking on what's left of last century's world order. 

Elections won't solve $34 trillion dollar debt or our annual tyrannical $1 trillion military budget. 

At minimum, we need to abolish the military to even remotely have a chance to fend off this corruption.
The rich have moved on from national politics to global corruption. They are lawless. They just do what they want somewhere in the world. 

It is not a world order to them. It is world corruption. 

All the historical order is being ripped up and sold off for riches.
The rich don't care about people any more. Get over it. 

People flat out refusing that corruption is 100% of politics today is denial that will get us killed.

Yelling at corruption to stop corruption is futile.
There is a saying that it is not paranoia if someone is actually out to get you.

Similarly, it is not cynicism if the system is overrun by corruption. Public perception is the only "good" that exists.
What's "new", if you will, is the rich no longer desire or care about America as a concept. 

Now we're screwed. The rich just enrich themselves as shamelessly as any monarchy pre-Democracy.

They only care about "elections" as a means to manipulate the public.
Got history?

We all know Jefferson and Washington owned slaves. Jefferson had sex with underage slaves he owned. 

The Epstein files are American history. The rich have always been debased. 

If anything surprises you, then you haven't internalized history.
----------------------------------------
2026-02-01
----------------------------------------


JFYI, all files can be uniquely identified using an MD5 checksum. Any file with a unique serial number embedded an then checksum created is existing tech.

DNS can be used for verification.

Implementing the child pornography thought experiment is trivial tech.
Is the world/local AI with hot/cold networks perfect? No.

But it is a design. Something completely lacking in AI today 

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Irreni World Scale has a matching two level network design: hot and cold. 

Hot -> world AI internet
Cold -> air gapped local network.

The cold network receives new data from cold storage, aka hard drives.

New cold storage dumps are local AI processed for 72 hours .
Irreni World Scale provides information management using a two level AI approach. A massive world AI that is too big for more than one because it  requires world sized  resources.

Mesh node AI. This local AI can sustain the Mesh node when separated from the world AI.
In two 300 word posts I have provided a thought experiment to prevent child pornography. 

This is more effort than than tech community has put into solving child pornography since 1993.

This level of thougtlessnees is managing AI today. 

Totally reckless.
Resposibilty always takes time. Instant gratification is a shield capitalists have sold us on. 

Is censorship a problem. Absolutely. But a better problem than child porography.
Here is  a thought experiment solution to child pornography.

Serial numbers. All images must be processed and assigned serial numbers by government before being allowed to be used publicly, especially transported.
Mark my words:

Technologists will be promoting rights for AI agents long before they provide the slightest AI responsibilty.

Corporations are legal people. Think about that. AI will be legal people.
AI wars are coming. From the 1980s Skynet to 1999s Matrix. We've been warned. Yet what do we do? Nothing.

Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm). 

Mesh society has both child pornography and AI defenses. 

Irreni.social
AI technologists are just repeating the same two lame excuses for releasing new AI tech without any social responsibilty:

1. Capitalism
2. Not our problem

Techies still have yet to propose a single tech solution to child pornography. No interest. Rinse and repeat with AI.
I started university in 1993, the year the web browser came out. By 1999, Congress was grappling with a proliferation of child pornography made possible by new tech. Testimony to Congress by technologists was:

1. Capitalism
2. Not our problem.
Tech gave us the atomic bomb without social preparedness. Sci-fi was invented to help with that. AI is today's atomic bomb tech and its inventors are as oblivious to social responsibilty as we're the inventors of the Atomic. 

We learned nothing from sci-fi.
The tyranny of AI has long been mulled over, solutions like Asimov's rules proposed. Yet the AI community ignores all the work to use it responsibly. Why? For the same reason sll tech is toddler irresponsible today: look at how clever I am. Childish ego.
The AI community looks down on those afraid of AI. AI is being weaponized just like YouTube and social media algorithms metastisized echo chambers of dysfunction for cash, click bait.
The entire purpose of the sci-fi genre was to prepare morals ahead of time before the tech was realized. 

The whole AI agent community ignores Asimov's robot rules and everything else.
Farmer spoofed Vonnegut's "Kilgore Trout" pulp author from Slaughter House five. The female on the cover here is an android. Does she have rights?
Star Trek has long wrestled with AI humans. Data. The new Picard series. As well as clones in DS9. The line between what is "real" conciousness and not in the Matrix movies.
AI wars are coming. AI agents are posting here? How can you filter out a near perfect mimic? With another near perfect mimic. Soon we'll all need active AI agents to filter out AI agents.
Just for clarity, I do believe Biden didn't release the Epstein files because he wasn't willing to tamper with the evidence.
You know, I'm pretty sure people on here have watched a s**t ton of legal shows. Cop shows, detective shows, courtroom dramas. 

So we all know about chain of custody, right? Biden had the Epstein files for four years, didn't release. Unless there is a chain of custody why believe?

¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Last Spring Elon Mush posted on Mushster that Trump is in the Epstein files. If AI can fake photos it can very easily fake text. You don't even need AI to fake text. 

How do we know Trump didn't put Mush in the files as revenge? 

Check, check, check...is this thing working?
I'm not autistic but I do share some neurodivergent traits. One of them being reduced capacity for cognitive dissonance. A rule is a rule. 

Trump lies. The Epstein files are lies.

I will never understand neurotypicals.
Kabuki theater

Trump is ignoring existing laws like breaking into houses without warrants, a Constitutional level law.

What makes anyone think ICE will implement anything in some funding bill? I mean really.

It's all just kabuki theater.
Bribing on the right is well established business, Melania is just one of thousands.

Books. Conservatives would write fake books and rich conservatives would buy thousands of them in bulk to get them on the NYT best sellers.

So, why aren't the rich conservatives buying up all the seats?
----------------------------------------
2026-01-31
----------------------------------------

Democrats always attack the left. 

www.youtube.com/shorts/42ItI...
I guess it is a good time to remind people that  GW eliminated habeas corpus for all "terrorists". The Geneva convention and our own constitution requires habeas corpus be given to prisoners of war. GW reclassified POWs as enemy combatants to get around it. Shopping law. Law shopping.
Cops kill 1000s each year. Their names don't mean justice. Only a few cops are prosecuted. 

And...

The number reported is under-reported because the police in every city and every State in the Union refuse to report their kills. It is left to journalists and others. 

Tip of the iceberg applies.
AI coding tools are just yet another IDE. IDEs have long had templates and what not to provide boilerplate instant code. 

This just feels like the IDE versus text editor war that raged for 20 years all over again. 

I only use a text editor. If you use an IDE, fine. Same with AI coding tools.
Technical point of order: what does "page" mean to the public? 

It certainly feels like gaslighting to say they are releasing "millions of pages". How many of them are 100% redacted? Seems easy enough to pad those numbers.

*~shakes head*~
Carrier pigeons

Free invention for someone. A drone with two docking stations packaged. Drone can carry say 5lb payload. On board camera. Doubles as counter surveillance and "Door dash" meal delivery routing.
Street gangs. 

Tyranny is far older than free society. Street gangs with scouts, lookouts, and such will formulate the longer tyranny remains. 

The Mafia and the Mob.
People need to start using dash cams and other cameras mounted strategically out of sight. Not on your phone.

Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm). Including for the downfall of the US.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
The Trump admin today is announcing a new Fed chair. Why? Because the financial system is out of control and the absolute s**t dumbest humans on the planet are sure they have the answer.
The US government is far more unstable than just Trump. The financial system is so convoluted, so gamified, no one understands it. It is a house of cards ready to fall.
Which financial side are you going to choose? Online gambling to pay medical bills? Crypto to pay rent? Nvidia stock to pay for college? The S&P 500 to beat inflation?

The AI bubble is going to burst. None of the financial factions are low risk. 

Weaponized.
The US financial system has always been biased against the avg American. Now it is 100% weaponized against us and we have to choose sides or get rolled.
The rich saw an easier system to gamify than the heavily regulated currency markets. There are no regulations in crypto. So what was sold as stable via smoke and mirrors of tech known as blockchain was easily even more gamified by the rich than the US dollar.
The irony of crypto is that in 2008 the Bitcoin launch was supposedly a response to the US dollar being gamified to only serve the rich so buy Bitcoin. However, it was the rich who bought the first billions of Bitcoun in US dollars, giving it its value.
The American financial system has been weaponized against us. Banks make large sums of interest on overnight investing and pay none of it out to Americans. A "free checking account" is just alms to the poor.
Inflation is not 3-4%. People know this. Medical bills have doubled. Rent has doubled. Inflation reported in the news is more stupid than avg American financial intelligence. The Inflation numbers have been stripped of all large expense items. Inflation just tracks Happy Meal prices.
I get why people are sports gambling and crypto gambling. At least those scams are somewhat understandable relative to stock market investing.
Let's count the corruption ways of everyday American finances.

1. 0% savings interest.
2. PVM is not understood.
3. Investing is high risk for the uneducated.
4. Pressure to invest based on 0% interest.
5. 401k plans are tied to work.
Robbing people by PVM is not the only agenda. Every financial advisor will tell you that you are losing money if it is just sitting in a bank account. No, they want your money "invested" in the stock market. It is not investment though if it doesn't beat inflation.
Present value of money includes loss based on inflation. PVM goes down with the rate of inflation if you just hide money in your mattress. That's what I was taught as a kid. Americans are being robbed by Banks maintaining 0% savings rate when the Feds raised rates.
Think about it. Fed raise interest rates and mortgage rates went up accordingly. You know what didn't go up? Savings account rates.

You never hear economists these days include American Savings per capita. Because that would be stupid.
When I was growing up in the 60s and 70s the system depended on Savings. One could get 5-8% interest by just parking money in a bank savings account and beat inflation over a lifetime..

Today those accounts don't pay any interest even though Fed rates are no longer 0%.
Law shopping.

1. Bribes by movie making.
2. Bribes by lawsuits.
3. Money laundering by crypto/art
4. Crypto

When gaming the system is the system, then the system is just corruption.
I'm watching less and less YouTube. Influencers are amplifiers, not intellectuals or thought originators. Reactionary thinking is not helpful. 

Influencers are lacking self-awareness when they say Congress critters are not up to thus moment. Their responses aren't either.
We are in a post-Constitutional era. Denial is not helpful. Power for power's sake, might makes right rules.
Acab

Americans are in denial at this moment. Once it is clear that the 2026 elections are rigged, then the denial will fall. 

States will gradually start ignoring the Feds outright.
We now live in a post Constitution era. It is every State for themselves. F the Feds. The US military cannot police internally and also many countries simultaneously. Not big enough.
Further expect Blue States to set up border checkpoints. Unconstitutional you say? The entire Federal gov is lawless today. There is no law now. States will ignore the Constitution just like Feds.
The destabilization of the US is a self-inflicted MAGA wound, but the spiral will soon pick up hitch hikers. 

For example, expect California to make arms deals with the EU. That kind of thing. An arms race between the States and Feds internally.
As wealth inequality in the US continues to skyrocket out of control, then so will the unemployed desperation. 

That desperation is the door of opportunity for our enemies to buy influence for increasing chaos.
High unemployment means desperate people. Drugs, for example, already supply millions of jobs in this country. 

20%? If we calculated unemployment by 1980 standards that would be my guess. 4-5% is a lie to keep people calm.
As the US destabilizes then foreign actors will smuggle in arms and money to any faction. Because that's what we do. The irony will be that for decades the right has been accusing Gorege Soros  of funding the left. Foreign countries will do so.
History as the future.

Since Vietnam, the US preferred playbook for destabilized countries is even more destabilization. 

This means US citizens can expect free weapons from foreign countries. Not just guns. Bombs, drones, etc.

The world will do to us what we've done to them.
Incompetent defines Trump and his government. I'm surprised it didn't work. One could probably just a do repeat though. Incompetent.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-30
----------------------------------------

Or, or, or, the Blue States form a new Union and declare the current one rogue.
I guess after just 50 detentions that they reported last week, along with the huge storm, then invading Russia in the winter is indeed a losing strategy. They'll be back in they summer. They hate the few Samolis we have that much.
The first law of AI code:

To the extent humans understand the AI code generated then AI code is unnecessary. To the extent AI code is necessary humans don't understand it.
Law shopping. 

Americans are law shopping today. 

Choose wisely.

irreni.social
Law shopping. 

The US is failed. But we can take steps to lower our threat to the world.

1. Abolish the military. 100%
2. Abolish the Presidency. 
3. Let the States establish small armies like most countries have.

It puts the US at a huge risk rather than posing a huge risk to the world.
Law shopping.

No one, no one, should ever come close to having the kind of power Trump has. It is completely Earth irresponsible to ever allow it happen. Yet, Americans have.
Law shopping.

Americans really do not understand just how dire the current predicament is.  Trump is mad. The denial that Americans are in that the US is failed and impossible to revive could end much of the world, not just the US.
Law shopping.

Today the US is a nuclear threat to the world. All Trump has to due is nuke Washington DC while being in Mara Lago. Game over. Government gone. No return. The whole world will burn and that is on all of us in the US. Trump nuking the US is something the world cannot respond too.
Law shopping.

Being an Earthling has been my world view since I was a kid. I wanted an Earth based society, no nations. So I created one. Mesh society. Irreni World Scale. 

Today the US is a nuclear threat to the world.
Law shopping.

There are great tragedies happening in Sudan, Iran and all over the world. I consider them my tragedies as much as the collapse as the US. Because we are all one people in my world view. Everyone is my brother and sister.
Law shopping.

The US is already failed. Law shopping for a scenario where it can be revived is just fantasy, like MAGA and Blue-MAGA.

I consider myself a citizen of the world first and foremost. That's where my law shopping begins, world society. 

Think big or fail.
Law shopping.

Americans are law shopping today. MAGA has some 19th Century fantasy the tech bros are aligned with but for completely different reasons. Blue MAGA is shopping for the 1990s. And what about you? What law are you wanting to purchase?
Law shopping.

The only law purchase that makes sense today is to first acknowledge we are are just Terrans now, citizens of Earth. 

Then we need to design an Earth society. 

Fortunately for you I've already done that, Irreni World Scale.

The only thing you need to do is get over your denial.
Law shopping. 

A mad king and a nuclear bomb nullifies the M.A.D. deterrent. The king is mad. The egos will annihilate each other. Fini the human species.
Law shopping.

The tech bros law purchase of reducing global population to one billion such that existing governments can function is evil for killing billions and a pipe dream that won't work. 

Technology created the nuclear bomb. 19th Century government was ego driven, kings.
Law shopping.

Just kill enough people. 

The way the tech bros see it just kill enough people to reduce population to where the 19th Century monarchies can function again. That is what they call "Effective Altruism" and is the law shopping choice they have made.
Law shopping. 

The tech bros and theocratic governments are of the same mind: go backwards. Burn down the global structure and go back to 19th Century size governments with monarchy rule. 

This will result in billions dying. 

That is their solution. 

Don't globalize. Just kill enough people...
Law shopping.

The US is already failed. It cannot be fixed. People are in denial. The government cannot be fixed. No one, besides yours truly of course, has any solutions that address the global scale.
Law shopping.

The 0.001% wealthy are already buying super yachts and compounds outside the US in preparation for when the AI bubble collapses. I could easily buy a plane ticket and be in another country tomorrow. Whatever collapse in the US happens I have the means to get out.
Law shopping.

The old adage of "be careful what you wish for because you just might get it" applies to MAGA.  If Blue State middle-class flight out of the US happens then MAGA will get what they wish for: a sh*thole country due to a poverty of humanity for them to wallow in self-pity in.
Law shopping.

We can fly anywhere in the world in a single day.  If life in the US becomes much more tyrannical then those with the means will simply go law shopping and move. Nations that want those means will welcome them. We must admit we are all citizens of the Earth now. And act accordingly.
Law shopping.

Tweaking Democracy around the edges is not serious. Doing a page one rewrite of the Constitution is not serious because we live in a global society. 

Mesh society is the only society designed to include everyone on the planet. A social system that can apply global standards.
Law shopping. 

Nations are dead. Democracy is dead. Technology makes all of us citizens of every country. We trade with every country. Labor laws exist in every country.

Acknowledging this basic fact of the state of the world has to be the starting point of any solution.
Law shopping.

I bring up law shopping because today and on other sparse days I see people promoting solutions like abolishing the Electoral College or term limits. 

We have move so far beyond those milestones with technology and globalization. What is needed is a social system that is global.
Law shopping.

No nation has a legal system that in anyway addresses international actions. Especially the US which doesn't recognize international authority. 

Global corporations are lawless entities when shuffling business to the most favorable nation.
Law shopping.

The fundamental problem with every Democracy on the planet is law shopping. A nations laws only apply within the nation. Technology allows people to act anywhere in the world and law shop for cheap labor, lax environment protections etc.
ACAB
conservative headlines review

Misogyny. The response to anti-ICE protests is to turn the misogyny up to 11. 

/sarcasm on

Pathetic. When I was a kid  boys were taught not to hit women and kids. Only the weak, yellow-bellied cowards picked on women and children. 

/sarcasm off

That's MAGA today.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-29
----------------------------------------

In case you missed it, Sinclair media that owns most local radio and tv outlets is on yet another campaign to buy even more media. 

Tik Tok was taken down in the US. Bluesky will easily fall if tech bros ban its hosting. 

This is the war.
Eventually the tech bro billionaires aligned with the right and deconstructed all liberal media. This is a root cause 50 years in the making. Getting rid of Noem, Miller or Trump isn't go to fix this.
In my work of software engineering it is important to identify root causes. 

The root cause of Trump is not Trump. The root cause of Trump goes back to 1980 and Moral Majority campaign. This brought us Rush Limbaugh and Fox News. Murdoch,  the Koch Brothers, and other billionaires bought media.
The history of the Roman Catholic Church's 1500 years is one long reign of terror on Muslims, Pagans, women, and Jews.  Christianity has always relied on the few true believers of the pleb and soup kitchens to convince people any Christian is good. There is nothing more wicked than Christianity.
As Jon Stuart would say, "So close!" We learn quickly as a child playing D&D  that evil that presents as evil doesn't last long. Both evil and good kill it. But evil that presents as good, there's the sweet spot. Christianity is the best  religion to provide moral cover for evil.
Randall is an Evangelical criticizing Trump followers. This is very on point.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jrs-...
Just a reminder. Trump isn't writing his social media posts.
America is facing sheering headwinds from two opposite  directions:

1. Dynamic culture is new and uncomfortable
2. Racism static culture is old and comfortable

In some real sense we are in a tension of which of these headwinds will prevail. 

I choose dynamic. Down with racism.
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm).

You can be the precipitate by joining an MGO today
Irreni.social
Our brains are culture tablets. We need to optimize culture.

That means experiments. Science.

Irreni World Scale, mesh society, is precisely that. Mesh = experiments.
We should understand culture integration better. Educated migration not border control.

The American melting pot was a stroke of luck. Bad luck for the natives. Good luck for Europeans.

We need to advance from luck to science.
Knowing that dynamic and plastic culture is our advantage, ye Ole melting pot, then we should be welcoming tens of millions of migrants every year. Thus is science. Not eugenics.
What makes America distinctly America is plastic culture. This is a huge evolutionary advantage. A constant infusion of new culture prevents cultural calcification. We are dynamic not static culture.
This dynamic aspect allows us to adapt more quickly then previous cultures.
So knowing this science of brains then  what race people are as immigrants is immaterial.

What is material is culture. Like public education, work ethic, and so on. We have  codified in law the important aspects of American culture. For better or worse. Public education, guns  and capitalism.
Tabula culture is well documented, decades old science. 

Yet the tach bros are pushing white superiority that doesn't exist. This is at the heart of our immigration attitudes. The culture of American racism, eugenics, started with slavery and is baked into American culture: White Nationalism.
So we are tabula culture, not tabula erase or tabula millenia of evolution, eugenics.

Brain function has zero to do with race. 

Our genes may determine skin color but not specific brain function. Our brains are plastic.
Thus it is that any human can be taught any language from birth. This debunks the Wharf-Sapier hypothesis and the now known to be utterly stupid idea that Western Culture is evolved brain superiority. 

Our brains or so malleable we call them plastic. Brain shape of function is product of culture.
For example, did you know the brain is capable of understanding 500,000 distinct phenomes, or sound definitions? However, within the first six months of development the brain starts training what phenomes are important and narrows down the possibilities to around 50,000 thousand.
The Wharf-Sapier hypothesis has been debunked for decades. 

The brain is neither pre-programmed nor a blank slate. We do have initial instincts as infants but very few. Instead the human condition is cultural programming. First our family then an ever widening social circle.
Eugenics is highly controversial in religious thinking. Why? Tabula erasa. In order for sin to be universal then the brain needs to be a blank slate. All of our choices are equally free.
The experiment published was studying Eskimos. They had 50 words for snow. The hypothesis is that only people evolved in this environment could invent 50 words for snow.
As part of my education for inventing mesh society I read on culture and anthropology. 

One of the things I encountered was the Wharf-Sapier hypothesis. Eugenics.

The notion is that different races have different brains, specifically evolved for environment over thousands of years. Eugenics.
I'm not a racist. Christians are. Ergo they assume that everyone is for border control. I'm not. We should easily be able to welcome millions every year distributed throughout the country. Controlled migration.
Here's a thought experiment Christianty never considers because it is evil.

How many white immigrants would satisfy our birth rate problem. 

Answer? Tens of millions. If it were only a few it wouldn't be a problem.
If you want to commit mass evil then Christianity is for you. Don't question my morality, my religion protects me.

We should doing like Spain only welcoming tens of millions. 

If we did so productively then we'd have all the manual labor work force we need.
Christianity is supposedly about welcoming the stranger, taking care of those in need.

However, you never hear Christians proposing building dozens of Ellis Islands in the Western Hemisphere like I just proposed. Why?

Because Christianity is wicked evil. Its sole purpose is moral cover.
I am all in favor of opening up immigration versus border control.
We could set up "Ellis Island" in many places in this hemisphere. 

1. Reduces death due to 1000 mile migration.
2. Allows for in place health screening.
3. Provide safe harbor zones.
There's a talking point out there that never goes challenged: "of course we all want border control." 

No. We could just take in everyone. Many of the problems of millions of migrants are due to spending billions each year on control. We could spend that on welcoming.
The "news" is straight up reporting the Feds account of the Pretti murder. 

Straight no chaser. 

The first rule of lie club is don't talk about lie club.
Living on the edge.

This Korr's Herb and Butter rice/pasta kit calls for 2 cups water and ... 2 Tb spoons of margarine. Not "butter or margarine", just margarine. 

I put in butter in my Herb & Butter.

Sometimes I just have to be befuddled that people are just, I don't know, lacking wisdom? 

The fish rots from the head down. Until Trump is gone nothing is going to change. 

www.phrases.org.uk/meanings/fis...
When I started working  in my teens there was a bunch of us who tried to ouster a bad manager. Eventually they left and were replaced by an even worse manager. 

Ahhhh, Teenage lessons. 

People are calling for Noem's impeachment. Is the expectation that her replacement will be competent? humane?
All the Epstein files implicating anyone have either been deleted or sanitized. I have no idea why people would think "a million more files" is true or that after Trump carted off a planeload of documents last time then he wouldn't just delete what he wanted.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-28
----------------------------------------

Blue states should withdraw from the current Federal gov. and declare the current one null and void. You, know, like an anti-Pope.  Pay taxes and conduct business in the new Fed gov. That's not succession. That's nullifying the current rogue gov. 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antipope
 A British comedian rant more worthy than any US politician today.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=oU7L...
This is not surprising because many Republicans are single issue voters: abortion. Roe was overturned and Republican strategists were trying to figure out how to  turn out the vote for abortion voters.
Useless Collins
My money is on Mercs next.
Useless Collins.
Well Noem and Bovino down. Just observing history that Mercs are next. Also, I would expect Rubio or someone already confirmed to take over DHS.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-27
----------------------------------------

I keep getting this Elizabeth Warren ad on YouTube asking for Democratic party donations so they can "win".

Kamala had $1 billion and lost to the worst candidate ever.

Somehow I don't think money is the issue.

¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Didn't think they had contact lens back then.
It should be a turning point for the Blue States.

From an Alliance. 

 Form an Axis. 

Nullify the Federal Government.
Yes, Abolish ICE and CBP. 

I'm of the opinion that border enforcement shouldn't carry weapons. Instead they should be escorted by military personnel when ON THE BORDER. Personnel with experience of use of force rules. Our CBP doesn't follow rules used in foreign lands.
Dem leaders pushed Cory Booker out there to float body cams and training for ICE. Now that this has had no effect they are allowing a few to say impeach Noem and defund DHS in this one bill, even though BBB applies. 

It is all just placating calculus.
Just wanted to say well met! Mental health is still way to stigmatized by religion and society overall. It is always great to see public figures open up, even Ye.

From where I sit Stephen Miller wasn't happy with Noem's count so he brought in Bovino. Bovino isn't cutting it either. Historically if you want people to murder your own citizens then you bring in mercenaries from other countries. So, probably some place like Turkey or Belarus.
I watched the Minnesota press conference just today. 

One of things that was missing from both the Gov's remarks and the reporter questions is:

"Why aren't the Blue States aligning, forming an axis?"
www.youtube.com/watch?v=SL35...
----------------------------------------
2026-01-26
----------------------------------------

Sunday Hattitude [>:)
Maine has even less.
Nice phone background.
Trump is puppet theater for the billionaires.  A puppet theater they will gleefully tear down overnight and replace with another one like they replaced Bush with Trump. 

It is them or us. Either we tear down the billionaire's finances or they will tear down the world.
The insanity of what the billionaires are doing is they are betting they can burn it all down before they have the first "Freedom City", or Corporatacracy, established. 

We need a digital reign of terror. Zero out all the digital money of the  billionaires. 

Crash their accounts.
The billionaires are playing good cop/bad cop with the Democratic and Republican parties respectively. 

From the outside it looks like they want to burn it, the USA, all down except the law and order needed for the financial markets. Digital money needs order. 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corpora...
The minute Bush left office he became personna nongratta within the Republican Party. The same will happen with Trump. The billionaires will just find another useful set of idiots meanwhile avoiding all scrutiny.
I would not take away from any of this analysis. I would add to it though. 

Billionaires. Stephen Miller and the entire Trump regime are useful idiots for billionaires. When they heat gets too hot and there is too much chaos the billionaires will back away from Trump the same as the did with Bush.
Good revue and summary.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=_r8f...
----------------------------------------
2026-01-25
----------------------------------------

This, like most killings of blacks, never made national news. 

This s**t ain't new. It happens every day. 

Cops kill 1300 people are year.
I live in Oakland during the 1990s. One gang shooting that happened a few blocks from where I lived involved a drive by shooting. The gang sprayed bullets through the wall of a building where they thought there target was. Instead they killed a 10 yo black girl getting piano lessons.
ACAB
Talk is cheap. Actions speak louder than words, except when there are no actions.
The FEDs lying and planting evidence will be future opening defense in every trial going forward. No credibility in chain of custody or anything.
Overkill is SOP.

ACAB

We have long known, at least since Springsteen's 41 shots, that police are trained if one starts shooting, then they all start shooting such that multiple bullets kill,  thus masking the killer firing squad style. I'm surprised it was only 9.
I'd argue the Ds have no political cards to fix any of Ts damage with the world if they take power again. But history after Bush tells us they won't want to anyway.

The Ds and Rs are the same in being corrupted beyond repair.
Tourism is going to crash even harder as ICE ramps up. That includes internally. Why travel in dangerous conditions? 

Retalitory tariffs are coming. Divesting from the dollar is coming. None of this is good for the US economy.
If T sparks the civil unrest he wants in the US then what person would come to a sh*thole country with war waging in the streets? Build new factories? Or do any business with ICE kidnapping foreigners and putting them in gulags.
We may start to see Rs break with T on some tariffs. Although I think Ts isolationist endeavors may result in the world taking over that endeavor and the world isolates us. World tourism to the US was down 20% in 2025. That could get much worse, especially if T declares martial law.
Guaranteed the billionaires are telling Rs, get your stock market act together or you are out on your a**es in 2028. This is why they are showing signs of economically pushing back a little with T. They can't control him so that ain't gonna work. The ACA may yet get Biden level funding.
So the billionaires are paying for this. Musk spent $250 million to elect Trump. No billionaire paid that for
 Kamala.  The Ds "moved on" from Bush to "let the nation heal."

There is our indicators for what the Ds will do.

Whatever is needed to shore up the Stock Market. Fini.
Nancy Pelosi was like, "sure no big deal" and let all the Bush criminals get away with it. How could that not beckon the worst of the worst. Pelosi opened the door for Trump.

But ultimately, so did 100% of all Ds. No one, and I mean no one, pushed back.
Pelosi made Trump. You don't think Trump looked at all the criming Bush did and got away with? They literally "lost" one million, one million rifles. The "lost" pallets worth billions, billions of dollar currency.
In 2006 Nancy Pelosi assured herself the "worst Speaker in history" position  on her first day as Speaker when she unilaterally decided to not investigate or prosecute a single Bush Republican for war crimes or war profiteering. For shame. For shame. This paved the way for Trump.
How many Fortune 500 CEOs are speaking out against Trump?

0

They are paying for this. As long as the Stock Market stays high like Ts first year then T is fine. The current downward trend may spell trouble. 

Correcting the market would be D changes.
I often wonder what people think will happen when Ds take back control. Well, I have two hints for you.

1. Billionaires want this.
2. Ds "move on" to heal the nation.
In the not too distant future there will be more computer languages in use than human languages. 

Because ego.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-24
----------------------------------------

AI violates intellectual property laws and robs people of money.

So AI is robbing us by:
1. Bad quality costs money
2. Unpaid labor as testers
3. Unpaid labor for intellectual property

Who does this remind you of?
AI is just software. It is unoriginal algorithms being used at scale. So why does AI suck? 

The answer is that AI is untested. They are forcing users to be the testers. The are forcing consumers to consume crappy, untested output. 

We are unpaid labor. We are normalizing bad quality.
Religion is wrong about mostly everything and what bits and pieces it does get right are incorporated into the corpus of anthropology. 

Religion is irrelevant and can be 100% ignored.

Just like tradition as blind trial and error can be completely discarded for science.
"The state of technological advancement today is such that we have guided missiles and misguided men." 
-MLK

A most fitting definition of tech bros today as being completely ignorant of human nature.
"Most people miss out on opportunity because it comes dressed in overalls and looks like work."
-Henry Ford
Instant gratification is the enemy of all social cohesion.
Instant gratification is the capitalist anesthesia. The somnolence of the human yearning to awake to greater experiences.
Instant gratification undermines education required, nullifies hard work generations.
Mesh society will take many generations, 400 years by my estimates.

Instant gratification is the hierarchy trap.
So join an MGO, a mesh governing organization. 

Irreni.social
The only path forward for high-tech societies is mesh society.
The thirteen colonies of the original USA design was a primitive mesh. Alas they didn't think mesh and couldn't resolve small and large nodes to fixed size nodes. States ultimately fell prey to nullification by federal size. States are only a shell of their former selves. Carcasses hollowed out.
Democracy is dead because hierarchy is dead. The one who brings you to the dance is not always the one you leave with.

The hierarchy train has run out of track. End of the line.
Humans will be the most responsible with all animals when they are most responsible with all humans. Maximum effort of humane treatment.
There are no rights in mesh society. Only responsibilities. Redposibilities always require priorities, rights do not.
Planet projects depend on mesh society. So first mesh society then climate management and animal humane treatment.
Ignorance of human nature defines climate change change/animal rights activists. 

This is why they make little progress and take two steps back going one forward. 

Hierarchy doesn't scale to planet size. Too many petty jealousies of hierarchy authorities. 

Hierarchy cannot put egos aside. Ever.
If only understanding human nature was a requirement of management. Ignorance is power today.
This is your touchstone. Anyone pushing hierarchy is telling you they are ignorant of bureaucracy and cycles of Empires.
Mesh is the only logical society because it is the only efficient design of infinite designs custom to environment and desire that are always changing. Niche and galaxy class.
Hierarchy is just plain stupid run by the stupid. Hierarchy breaks down as it gets larger until it ultimately collapses under its own weight. The cycle of Empires. The people at the top are stupid relative to demands made on them. An impossible design.
Meshes scaling from size two to 100 million magnitude matches each problem with the efficiency of scale. Hierarchy empire builds to the largest possible until stopped by other hierarchies. Think large corporations can't innovate because they have only one scale, the whole empire.
Irreni mesh is comprised of fixed size 30 people mesh nodes. That would give us 300 million nodes to make meshes with today. Meshes of size two being the most common. Think of the Periodic table of elements. Mesh nodes are atoms.
Mesh will have an infinite number of arrangements specific to environment and desire. Mesh will evolve. Hierarchy doesn't.

So anyone selling hierarchy is telling you they know nothing, Jon Snow.
Hierarchy is rotten design. Extremely inefficient. Anybody who studies anthropology for five seconds learns this. Mesh is the logical efficient arrangement.
At speed-of-light travel efficiency dictated one of two designs. So war ensued when a new species put in an appearance.
I read this sci-fi book early in my teens where two deep-space spaceships started a war by mistaken identity.

Turns out effiecieny reduces design choices. Think aerodynamics and jets.
The tech bros like all royalty built on a** kisser think they are the exception, that their farts don't smell. 

So everything we've learned about human nature, anthropology gets flushed down the toilet in favor of their hallucinations. Like all a** kissing societies in history.
The curse of being educated is being managed by your inferiors. You get the job done in spite of management, not because of them. 

This is tech bro culture. They are as stupid as any royalty ever, surrounding themselves with syphocants.
In order to invent Mesh society I've spent decades studying human nature. Almost everything management claims about incentive and human nature is pure BS. Because they are ignorant. Of human nature.
The problem with the tech bros is they are ignorant about anthropology. When the read sci-fi/fantasy they learn nothing. 

It is the same problem with management in general. Ignorance of human nature managing.
Financial order will fall as social order falls. There were no economists before 1800 because Kings rule by whimsy.
Crypto then will have multiple ledgers. Won't that be fun.
All the King has to do is create a new ledger for Bitcoin with his name as the owner of all. What are you going to do to stop him? Given all the CSAM and crimes in the ledger then  wiping the ledger clean won't be a hard sell.
They think crypto will save them being independent of social order. It is not. Crypto will fall to "who watches the watcher". The authority of ledgers will be disputed. They've not learned anything about facts becoming whimsy under people like Trump. He is the sole watcher.
When I came to California in 1984 I learned about "fiscally conservative, socially liberal" politics. Today that means "fiscal law, social anarchy". Anarchy -> Monarchy. 

Problem is that's not possible: law for the stocks and Kings for plebs. Their digital trillions will wipe out overnight.
Back to the future.
As someone who was raised by two perpetual liars the time you should be the most on your guard is when they are telling you something they think you want to hear. 

You can quote me on that.
*sigh* Trump lies. About everything. 

Including backing off of Greenland. Or anything.

Geez us.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-23
----------------------------------------

I've seen reporting where EU NATO leadership is saying that they will abscond with every US base in Europe. Also, the US provides large amount of funding. Presumably some members will side with the US? Sounds like a new charter would be needed.
So many Useless politicians in Maine. If you click on Golden's Bluesky account he doesn't even put Democrat or Republican in his bio. King, Collins, Golden. meh.
Gov. Mills stating that what ICE is doing in Maine is "not right" is rated 5/5 Susan Collins.
I only almost pulled the lever and bought one last year. 

But the 16" had just come out. You know, don't buy the first edition, bleeding edge stuff. 

Now memory prices are going through the roof. Meh.

frame.work/products/lap...
But, over the years Lenovo has not kept pace with Linux. Especially since they rely on Nvidia.

I'm of the "right to repair" mindset and have been looking at Framework laptops for a few years now.

frame.work
Previously I used Lenovo laptops because they are certified with Ubuntu. Also, the hardware Windows key can be used in a VM once Windows is replaced with Linux.

Install a vanilla Windows in the VM sans all the adware/spyware Lenovo installs.
The Mac is so much less usable than Linux. 

When I use folder search it automatically flips to "Entire OS". When I select the folder to search then the search box clears. 

This just one of a ton of usability issues not in Linux.

I inherited this laptop and my previous is 13 years old.
Break in the cold temps, ie. > 20F, and I removed snow. Looked like dessert the powder was so fine. It's been so cold there were no animal tracks. Usually I get turkey's and deer. Arctic temps Friday for about week it seems.
Dangerous for everyone. Stupid by ICE management. Geez us. Just wait a couple of months. If they just dump people out of vans into parking lots, the cold could actually kill them.
More of my favorite color, all of them. :)
Oof! 2F high with -12F low in the next couple of days. 

ICE really will be ice. 

They really must hate the agents sending them to MN and ME in the heart of winter.
JGYI, the 430 follower count does not reflect blocked accounts. However, if you click on my followers link then you will only see 65. Some defect in how Bluesky counts followers.
You can check my moderation lists for >5k following block list. 

Come to think of it, most of my followers start after I repost art. So yeah, just other art followers mainly. 

:)
Finally got around to blocking any account following > 5k. 

This reduced my actual number of followers from 430 to 65. I still think that's too high considering I have only 10 followers on YouTube since 2006 and had only 8 followers on Twitter after 2 years. 

But 65 is good enough.
I just read yet another case of religious privilege being ruled against because of the 1st A. It took seven years on appeal to litigate and affirm existing law.

Trump is criming at the speed of light nullifying justice. Justice takes years per case.

Democracy is dead.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Trump has been in violation of the Emoluments Clause every single day he's been President of both terms. Biden had the Epstein files all four years he was President. Didn't use them to arrest Trump.

Our Democracy is dead. It is lawlessness all the way down. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
Ooof. VideoLan/VLC video/music player quick working for me with the latest MacOS update. Don't you just love updates? Turns out VLC attempts to open ZIP files and play any music in them. 

I moved all ZIP files out of my Music folder and now it works. 

Meh.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-22
----------------------------------------

"The biggest threat to Democracy today is oversimplified solutions to complicated problems."
-Joan Fedor, First Year Anniversary of the fall of the Berlin wall.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-21
----------------------------------------

America's embrace of tyranny using safety goes back to Raygun's, "War on Drugs". This was then amplified by Clinton/Biden's Black Incarceration Bill. The War on Terror was about safety. We've been asking for fascism since 1980, or, to put it another way, Democracy died in 1980.
A St. Paul retired Pasteur on the protest with Don Lemon reporting. Churches used similar arguments with Covid lock downs and churches became super spreaders. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=4GPv...
Trump's focus on safety is double speak for tyranny.
Safety is the oppressors tool. The Mafia and other gangs sell you insurance to protect you - from them. Safety.
The pathology of the tech bros is that they think their digital finances and personal freedom in Freedom cities built in faraway Greenland will protect their freedom and crypto finances.
Franklin warned that those who give up freedom for safety deserve neither. The Unitary Executive and Patriot Act were huge freedom giveaways. Deserve is the correct word choice for fascism of today.
The long arc of history goes from 9/11 to Trump.

Trump is going to kill far more Americans on American soil than 9/11.



----------------------------------------
2026-01-20
----------------------------------------

One of the things polls do not take into account is how much of Trump's support is from people who just hate Democrats.
Did you know that the occupation of economist did not exist until Monarchy was disposed of and rule of law replace it? Laws  create stability predictability.

The billionaires backing Trump have forgotten this. Laws provide stability. Monarchy is whimsy and unpredictable, unmanageable.
"The pace of technological advancement  today is such that we have guided missiles and misguided men"
-MLK
Talking with a MAGA type last week still supporting Trump. Why? Demand side economics of free stuff like Universal Healthcare will kill the economy.

They see compassion and taking care of people as free stuff.

Space cold hearts. Capitalism high on its own farts. 

Shivering horror.
MAGA, noun: 1. However imperfect, the USA had a "rising tide lifts all boats", or soft power, approach to building the USA in the 20th century. MAGA reverses that approach and exclusively tears others down to make its traditions relatively better. 2. See zero-sum games. 3. It is easy to destroy.
Biden had the Epstein files all four years and just sat on them rather than take Trump down.

No denial. Know you enemy.
Mmm, so gotta keep your crazy muscles working.

If Trump were replaced by AI, could you tell?

Crazy thought: they create Trump AI while he's alive and make Trump AI President.

----------------------------------------
2026-01-19
----------------------------------------

Canada, please do this for Maine.
What's different? Runaway corruption coupled with the rich en masse giving up on the ideals of Democracy.

There is no coming back from that.

Corruption never fixes itself. The letter of the law can not withstand when the rich abandon the spirit of the law.

But sure, blame apathetic voters.
Irreni is the formal name of this mesh design: 

Innovation replaces religion, engineering not ideology.

Join Irreni World Scale today!

Irreni.social
When I say I have all the solutions(tm) then what I'm saying is the design is 100% self correcting. 

No ideals of human nature required or assumed. 

All social behavior is experimental. Experiments end when they fail. Not Utopia. Realistic.
Mesh society is an acceptable large-scale society design because the design is self correcting. The design is experimental and not ideal. There is no ideology in Mesh,  just 100% experimental.
Monarchy in all its forms was our first worst attempt at large-scale society. Democracy was our second. Democracy with Capitaliis our third. All are worst. We have yet to achieve acceptable large-scale society design.
American Democracy was overcome by Globalization Capitalism. Full stop.

If you read the Constitution you will not find law shopping and globalization designed. 

Like say, "The US can not find redress in foreign nations that is not established law within the Nation."
Any social system that is impossible to correct will devolve from all its ideals by promoting evil as good to cover the unfixable. Collapse is inevitable.
Capitalism and monarchy suffer the same inherent evil: no way to self correct. The errors built into the system can not and will not be fixed.
Capitalism is addicted to cheap labor. This is the same as monarchy. Monarchy needed 99% poor. Burke and others wrote about this extensively. Capitalism needs ???. Maybe 50%? In both cases, it is inevitable that tyranny would be necessary and promoted as ideal and good.
The American arrogance was believing globalization would not weaken American ideals when violating them law shopping in foreign places. Sweat shop labor for thee but not for me was never going to hold up. That is not how morals work.
Woke is the new hippie. 

Conservatives are not anything if not unimaginably and mind numbingly  repetitive.

Dullards and blunt instruments of cruelty.

Always.
People hand wringing and clutching pearls about apathetic American voters not voting for Kamala are telling you they haven't  read history. 

The Gaza genocide voting blocks tracks with anti-war voting during the 60s and 70s. Long tradition.
In Vietnam the US planted hunreds of thousands of land mines and never cleaned them up. Never. Children regularly died playing out in the fields.
During the  Vietnam war the US used napalm on entire villages, burning people alive. We used agent orange even on our own soldiers. We then sprayed that s**t in Colombia and elsewhere.
The Lancet estimated in the first year of Bush's war on terrorism that 500,000 Iraqi's died due to indiscriminate bombing.
In my lifetime, Raygun did nothing because he wanted gay men to die. He started a war on blacks that Biden/Clinton ramped up with a Black incarceration bill.
American voters have always been oblivious to American killing. Truman dropped 2 atomic bombs on Japan. Yet the immediate deaths were still less than the fire bombings of civilians in Dresden and Tokyo.
Please, Canucks, give Trump some dumba** peace prize and $1 billion bribe to T personally to buy Maine.

Please. :)
I really like this iceberg gradient of cyan. Painfully cold. Frostbite just from viewing. Yet also spellbinding. Like a siren singing, luring you to your demise if you linger on it.
Fact: if the entire world offered political asylum to any Americans who wanted  it then the white flight would drain 30-50% of whites in the US.
Proof:
The history of Ametican suburbs.
"I want my MTV, dammit."
I only took one art history class. This black cat looks like one straight out of Halloween. Given the superstitions of black cats, I can't help but wonder.
In the future America will be the bad guys in the James Bond movies.
Crisps are potato chips. The Crispy Cod reads as cod flavored potato  chips. Chips are fries. So we are talking cod flavored potato chips and french fries? The Brits are weird.

Breakfastbunny
Saturday Hatittude
----------------------------------------
2026-01-18
----------------------------------------

0.92 inches, Alexa said. 5 more hours to go.
AI, noun: 1. Me: Alexa, how much snow today. Alexa: About 0.92 inches. 2. See gaslighting. 

Gaslighting all the way down. Clouds move and are not a consistent thickness. So 1-2 inches is a precision meaning 0-4. It is a deliberate choice, not a hallucination, to use a 0.01 significant figure.
Being neurodivergent I have zero understanding for awards, trophies and sports.

Shoes, on the other hand, I totally get why women collect.
My favorite color: all of them.



In news being ignored:

Discover merges with Capitol One on 1/26.

More too big to fail nonsense. At some point we are just going to have one bank.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-17
----------------------------------------

American arrogance is such that they would rather the World burn, everyone dies and suffers, rather than admit America failed.

This is the plot of my new book, "Pride and Prejudice"
ICE is in Maine this week. Black ice driving takes so practice. Walking on snow-covered ice is hazardous. 

They obviously don't care about agents. 

Car accidents and falls are all unnecessary. Just wait until Spring-Fall.

But no. Stupidy and incompetence puts agents in harms way for no reason.
Proof Trump deleted all the Epstein files:

1. When he said the found a million more, just delaying because they were deleted.
2. He removed rooms and rooms of documents after his term.
3. Why leave incriminating evidence lying around?
4. No new crimes came from previous releases.
I'm too lazy but I would like a meme with Steven Crowder at a table and the sign says. "Trump deleted all the Epstein files, prove me wrong."
The US will devolve to Latin America where communities harbor drug gangs for protection.
You know what you won't find anywhere in social media or any media?

Content creators calling out both parties as the enemy. Why? Because there are no clicks in it. The truth is on you. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
Both parties are beholden to their billionaire donors and do their bidding. That's it.

Everything else is just lip service. 

Puppet theater.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Every day the Democrats in the House and Senate show up in DC they are sponsoring fascism.  That makes them fascists. Like felony murder, felony fascism.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Shadow Federal government.

Democrats in DC could abandon the House and Senate to start a shadow gov. Invite all D states to a Continental Congress where States work together to pass the same laws for each State.

Just spitballing here.

Which is more than the Ds.

No denial. Know your enemy.
I cannot stress this enough. 

The Democrats are the enemy. Both parties are the enemy.

No denial. Know your enemy.
There is some kind of general strike coming up this month. 

Howse about Democrats in DC go on strike in solidarity? No show for House or Senate? Strike all year. 

They won't strike though because they like things they way the are.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Do the Democrats have a plan? 

Greenland? Insurrection Act? Ukraine?

Crickets. Occasional grand-standing replete with teeth gnashing and pearl clutching for campaigning. But they can't be bothered to tell us if even "wait and see" is there strategy. Just crickets.
conservative headlines review

I guess they are going to start doxxing protesters. But hey, don't dox ICE agents. Insanity.

Ditto Times, "Person of the Year". 

These things made more sense in a low information world.
1800s photograph style.

----------------------------------------
2026-01-16
----------------------------------------

I think dilution applies to the decline in traffic in all corners of Bluesky. Discover feed dilutes for everyone p with so many more users now. 

Starter packs enabled people to follow 5k, 10k, 20k easily diluting following.
Just a reminder that Timothy McVey blew up a Federal building as part of an anti-Federal militia. I think the assumption that all these anti-government militia guys are MAGA may be put to the test if T enacts the Insurrection Act. These guys have hated the Feds since Waco.
See BS ratings fail may be the start of the end of Trump click bait revenue. It was claimed in T's first campaign that he received a billion dollars in free "ad" coverage as click bait. Perhaps we are finally starting to see the light at the end of that tunnel and people have had it with that bait.
Trump wanted to use nukes to bomb hurricanes. 

Just a reminder that testing errors and bugs are great cover for malfeasance.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=aCzC...
Communism was never socialism or communism. It was always authoritarianism. 

The lie of communism ever existed was a  wool pulled over conservative eyes.
People pushing back on both sides are the same are just noting that Dems are still chipping away destroying Democracy while Rs are building autocracy. But at some point when Democracy erodes something will take its place. That is all that is being argued.
Here's the Raygun legacy. The irony that they thought Capitalism globalization would end communism, end Russia and China.  Well, the US has collapsed first and is USINO, US in name only. Russia and China are still here.
The way is mesh society. 

No
1. Hierarchy/patriarchy/bureaucracy 
2. Capitalism
3. Currency, direct trade only
4. Nations
5. Governments

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
The only way to restore Democracy is to reverse globalization and reinstate nation sovereignty. That ain't ever going to happen. The US would  have to collapse first. A complete annihlation.
The US Constitution was not written for globalization. There are no global checks and balances. The US bought exemptions from all global accountability by being the largest funder of NATO and the UN. 

You can't run a world on the US Constitution.
It can be boiled down to one dimension:

Shopping for the cheapest labor and weakest laws in the world. 

That's all in took to kill Democracy. The silver bullet.
Ross Perot was the last stand Democracy would make. Perot was not a Politician, looked and sounded terrible on TV. A short, nasally throated guy who always sounded whiny.

Yet he got 20% of the vote because Amercans realized globalization was killing Democracy.
Ross Perot was an unlikely champion of Democracy. A corporate Fortune 500 CEO, Republican from Texas who went independent.
I've been following news in real time since 1980. During the 80s people extensively wrote about how globalization kills Democracy. How the Dems sold out Labor Unions for cheap, sweatshop foreign labor. This culminated in Ross Perot.
Getting rid of Trump won't reverse the thousand cuts that have killed Democracy since 1980. 

Nothing will. You can't elect politicians to reverse any of those cuts.
Here's a small fact that never gets reported.  During the Raygun years, Dems crossed party lines to vote with Republicans more than under any other president before or since.
Both parties killed Democracy and have been wantonly doing so since 1980. 

However, what changed with Trump is a shift from killing Democracy to building autocracy. But it took 40 years of a thousand cuts to enable a Trump.
Bill Clinton also passed the Telecommunications act that deregulated all media company ownership. Thus enabling the monopolies of today and killing local media. It is not social media killing us. It is deregulation allowing communication monopolies like Facebook.
Bill Clinton also passed the Crime Bill adding 300,000 police officers.  We now have 900,000 police in the US. Larger than almost all standing armies.
Both parties voted for Bank deregulation under Raygun. This enabled bubbles. The first bubble happened almost immediately with the Savings and Loan crash of 1989. Then Bill Clinton allowed the "Chinese Wall" to come down: separation of banking and stock market.
State shopping. California has usury laws capping interest rates at 20%, but credit cards are at 30%? Because Congress allows interstate banking since Raygun, State shopping for the most lax financial laws nullifying your State laws. Democracy dead.
Today, we have no idea what's going on. What is inflation? But wait, they took rent and a ton of other things out of inflation calculations years ago. 

Once you start down this path of both parties deceiving us since Raygun, then you realize Democracy died in 1980.
There are many factors to indicate Democracy died in 1980. For example, unemployment in my Rustbelt city was 13%. Then Raygun changed the calculation from workforce size to number of people filing for unemployment. Dems never changed it back. Both parties lie.

Blue by you.
I wouldn't be surprised this year if they bypass processing altogether and just start deporting all detainees, driving them straight to the airport. Only way they can even remotely get close to millions. 

Or they just lie. 

Like with "voluntary deport" numbers.
I actually think it will take them longer than 4h to process a detainee. Days and weeks for some. The 500,000 quoted below is highly optimistic. 

The detention centers are going to be a bottleneck. They have to take them to the detention center and then from the detention center to an airport.
Given:

1. 1 detention D is 5 ICE officers  @ 4h = 2Ds/d, 5d/w = 10 Ds /w / 5 ICE
2. 10,000 ICE / 5 = 2,000 x 10 = 20,000 Ds /w
3. 20,000 x 50 = 1,000,000 Ds

Half are bad catches & released= 500,000 deportations.
5 officers arresting is not about deporting 10 million. 
It is domestic terrorism.
Not only did he walk away but he drove to Maine. Which is I'm posting this. Does ICE have some safe space in Maine? @janetmillsforme.bsky.social That's scary to think about.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-15
----------------------------------------

YouTube and social media platforms can whack your channel at will, without cause, without reason, without warnings.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=g-o0...
Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Disorder Symptoms are brain  childhood development disorders. From the Mayo Clinic:
I can only imagine how many anti-vaxxers abuse drugs and alcohol. You never ever hear anti-vaxxers blame any child development problems on drugs and alcohol, just vaccines. 

I mean, really. The cognitive dissonance is stupidity defying. No one is that stupid.
We talk about crack babies. Never alcohol babies. 

You just never know what's going on in people's lives. Did Scott Adams get hooked on drugs? 

I liked Dilbert the first five years or so. None of the nastiness he's known for now was apparent then.
I have family members who have lost it in adult life. My parents abused all their kids greatly and were heavy drinkers. How much my Mom drank during pregnancy is unknown. 

Alcohol is the world's biggest drug problem we refuse to acknowledge.
One pattern I've experienced with permanent mental breakdowns is drug addiction. While 100,000/year die of overdoses, I can imagine a much larger percentage have permanent mental damage.
Scott Adams quickly ran out of ideas and crowd sourced his material by using ideas from his audience. Which I respected. I'm not sure how long that lasted. 

You get my age and you see the pattern ad nauseum, people have permanent mental breakdowns. It's sad.
So Biden had the Epstein files for four years and did nothing to win the election. 

Trump had them originally and hasn't destroyed them. Still.

I sometimes wonder what happened to healthy cynicism.
Relearning the definition of perfidy was not on my bingo card because it doesn't belong there. 

Easily one of the worst constructed English words, like platypus.
Actions speak louder than words and words is all we are getting from the Democrats. There entire 2026 platform is just words.
You can't get ahead by staying even is something my brother often said while growing up.

You can't survive a disaster by not being prepared. Winter is coming. The US will collapse.
Star Trek eventually pursued the "spaceship as survival unit" with Star Trek Voyager. I think its crew compliment was around 150? 

Sci-fi writers have long speculated on what the ideal crew of a spaceship would look like, what the minimal would be. 

Freighters full automated. Etc.
I've been working on Mesh society since 1980, when Democracy died in the US. 

At one time I branded it as spaceship politics. The idea is the spaceship is a self-contained society dependent on no one by using previously generated high tech. 

A spaceship survives on its own.
Mesh society is a combination of fast and slow networks. Slow networks are the foundation as survival units, mesh nodes, with 1 year's supply of survival necessities on hand.

Projects agreed upon by mesh nodes are the fast network.
Preppers believe they can create slow networks of one. This is bad design. 

We need doctors, dentists, and so on. We need slow communities of some size. Mesh society landed on 30 as a design. In any case we should all start building slow networks by pooling resources immediately around us.
The Internet ushered in fast society, fast networks. It also obliterated slow networks, i.e. family, churches, neighbors and neighborhoods.

Anyone who enacts slow society now will be prepared for when the Internet goes down due to warfare.
Empires always fall because corruption cannot fix itself. Success becomes corruption becomes failure.

Anyone who prepares now with a slow network will be prepared for the demise of the US.

The agenda is not just resistance, but survival.
Instant gratification is not going to defeat this tyranny. 

Long term planning is required.
Enlist Uber and Doordash drivers as dead drop couriers. For example. Or enlist a mail carrier. Just don't use the mail.

It took 5 decades for the right to become MAGA. The will not be defeated overnight. We need to also build decades long systems.
We can take certain ideas of the 20th Century and revise them for the 21st Century. 

For example, cells as VPNs and other computer networks of just a few people. Then coordinate by dead drops. This is how Osama Bin Laden was able to induce the US to spend trillions of dollars on a 20 year war.
The T admin has no defense and no plan for rebellion by computing. 

Violence by government only viable by using thugs. Thugs can't do intelligent defense against computers.
We need to get out of 20th Century thinking and into 21st Century thinking. 

Computers > violence.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-14
----------------------------------------

If you are not up for replacing Democracy with Mesh society then there are little things you can do to subvert the system.

For example, when I visited Colombia the locals had neighborhood "banks". A few families pooled money for loans with one family that managed the money.
We all need to figure out how to use the dark web to fight fascism.
Except me :). My role is providing the solutions, Mesh society.
The ICE agents are cowards and overcompensate by joining ICE. So it won't take much to scare them off. 

1. Crash their accounts. 
2. Extreme doxing. 

That's just two examples. Find Chinese and dark web sites to make the data public. It's how hackers have been selling our data for decades.
The pen is mightier than the sword and the computer is mightier than the pen. Zero out their bank accounts, for example.. You might go to jail but no one gets hurt.
This is why I do not use an IDE. I do not have ADHD, but I am very much neurodivergent. My trains of thought don't mesh with neurotypicals. AI is just 4GL, nothing new. I've tried various 4GL/rapid prototyping systems and discarded them.
Just a reminder I have all the solutions(tm). 

Mesh society is F.U.N, forever underground network. Mesh society requires mesh nodes to have 1 year's supply of survival goods on hand at all times. The Cold network is hand delivered trusted data. 

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
I never got around to a third law because I never found a company that kept the first two laws that any third law would necessarily have to depend on.
When I started programming in the 1990s I created two Laws of Programming:

1. Make something as simple as possible, but no simpler. -Albert Einstein
2. You have to be careful if you are not sure where you are going because you might not get there. -Yogi Berra

AI violates both laws egregiously.
The killer was standing behind Renee Good's car before Renee's partner asked Renee to move. Then the killer moved in front of her car as has been documented practice by border patrol for years now in order to create "self defense" justification.

Peak tyranny. False flag.
The Stock market gaining in 2025 while democracy collapses is the desired outcome of fascism. The trains will run on time.
I reject most modern definitions of fascism because they emphasize the symptoms and not the cause of the symptoms.
fascism, noun: 1. state, religion, and corporate power aligning to enact tyranny. 

Corporations are sponsoring tyranny. It is not just Trump. Evangelicals are sponsoring tyranny. It is not just Trump. The Republican party...
Name one company of large size sacrificing to fight the Trump the admin.

Mark Ruffalo showing basic humanity by saying it is difficult to celebrate or conduct business as usual because of what's happening in our country today is not reflected in Corporate America.
lawlessness, noun: 1. For conservatives killers like Kyle Rittenhouse all evidence prior to the moments of shooting is dismissed because of "gun run rights" law, yet for the victims like Renee Good, George Floyd, etc. the past is not dismissed.
I often wonder what parents with young children like Renee Good are thinking about the future those kids will have. 

Renee died trying to improve that future. We all need to care as much.



Here's the tech bro agenda called "Praxis Nation".  They are not hiding it. 

Note that "acquisition of physical territory". That would be Honduras island and Greenland. 

www.praxisnation.com
tech bro politics doesn't get much media exposure, such as Thiel's sea-steading failure in New Zealand. Here Kyle gives a an overview that's not bad for about 4-5 minutes. 

The want a Crypto-currency country and Greenland seams easy pickins.

youtu.be/n7_Ro4-sU-0?...
----------------------------------------
2026-01-13
----------------------------------------

Trump's bankrupting the country over illegal billions in tariffs reminds me of a saying when I was a kid:

If a person borrows $100,000 from the bank and doesn't pay it back then they are in trouble. If a person borrows $100,000,000 from the bank and doesn't pay it back, the banks in trouble.
The tech bros see Greenland as a perfect place to wait out all the chaos, misery and suffering from reducing world population. 

To wit, one billion people as world population is their goal for eugenics. 

What's happening with healthcare and anti-vaccine then it makes sense to them.
Just a reminder:

The tech bro paper for reducing world population:

1. 1 billion people as target population
2. Western civilization priority 
3. No wars, just let nature take its course by withholding medicine. Let pandemics and shorter lifespans kill people.
Enter the tech bros. The tech bros saw effective altruism as a smoke screen for eugenics. Back when Sam Friedmen was testifying to Congress about EA, they floated a paper about how reducing world population as EA. We are consuming resources future us will need so reduce population.
Just a reminder:

Effective altruism introduced in the mid 00s meant efficient charity. Ye ole treatment versus bandage saw. 

It mirrors gov going renewable energy spending to stave off worsening climate disasters.

Soup kitchens never solved anything, just perpetuate a co-dependency.
So is Kristi Noem, RFK Jr., Pam Bondi, Rudy Guliani, etc

Hiding behind mentally ill people as patsies and puppets who take all the abuse is classic rich people oligarchy. 

The billionaires are safe.
You'll often see me define words as satire. The Devil's Dictionary by Ambrose is the inspiration.
Orange done the right way.
Well red.
"She calls it iPad."
Detail


----------------------------------------
2026-01-12
----------------------------------------

These guys are idiots. 

They presented at UC Berkeley in the 90s when I was in grad school.

Their entire "innovation" was simply stripping down Linux and also stripping down PC computers to create  single purpose platforms for search engines. 

They got laughed at. Stripping is not academia.
Kristi Noem lying like she is being held hostage is reality.

Everyone in the T admin is going to go to jail.

Unless T pardons them. 

That's motivation to lie.
Given we have 99% of all felony convictions are plea bargains, criming at the speed of light overwhelms trials that take years, and 99% of all civil suits are arbitration where one side pays for the arbitration proceedings,

then

We do not have a justice system.
Criminal peaceful protest. 

For decades now 99% of felony convictions have been from plea deals. This is due to lack of court capacity for trial juries.

So, criminal peaceful protest would be do reject all plea deals. 

Force 100% of felony indictments to jury trial.
I guess since it has been a year, it is a good time to remind that criming at the speed of light can never resolve to justice when trials take decades.

Last year I linked to a "prayer in school" case that took over 10 years on appeal. Just to find current law applies.

Cry, my beloved country, cry.
Mesh node management, MM,  is constantly changing membership to improve dependent management. Improve social group behavior. 

 Bill Maher is correct that we can't know all the social rules on Earth. Mesh society limits dependent interaction with Mesh nodes. 

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
I have all the solutions(tm).

Dependent management is a science effort. We need to study and slowly learn how to mix dependent behaviors with social behaviors 

Enter Mesh node management, MM. 

MM has one sovereign power over mesh nodes: membership.
We need to acknowledge haters so we can manage them. We need to diffuse their concentration and dampen that hate, not quarantine haters so as to amplify the cruelty.

And that's going yo suck. No fun.
Sadly we are still operating under religious auspices that everyone is the same. Everyone hates so it makes no sense to treat haters as mentally unhealthy. We must reject this falsity, reject universal personality, reject religion. 

Haters have a mental condition they are born with.
Most importantly haters needed to be recognized as a neurodivergent category. Cruelty needs managed. Haters need social awareness the same as with the likes of autism.
Mesh society is made up of mesh nodes of fixed size 30 people. Half, 15, of the 30 are dependents. Dependents are kids, elderly, infirm and haters. Dependents depend on group management to take care of them.
Good news though. I have all the solutions(tm) ready and waiting in Mesh society design. Haters are included in the design. 

Haters are generalized as dependents. They must be managed as any dependent.
Well, we've known forever that containing haters to a concentrated group of mostly haters amplifies hate, cruelty and violence.  Ergo MAGA. 

The haters must be distributed diffusely throughout the population. Which sucks. We have to put up with them. Meh.
This was Bill Maher's intuition with politically incorrect. Haters going to hate. Ironically haters need a safe space to be unsafe.

We can't just pretend people like Trump are not woven into the fabric of humanity.

Haters going to hate 

But how? Where?
Psychology observed a long time ago that addiction is far from universal. Roughly only 10% of the population will get addicted to alcohol, gambling, etc. Caveats apply. 

Sadly, roughly 30% of the population is cruel, hateful and bigots. 

It's human nature. We can't just rule it away.
Growing up, my teenage self identified with a lyric from George Thorogoods, "Bad to the bone."

"It's in him, it's going to come out."

The woke crowd doesn't account for hate, bigotry and cruelty coming out.

As the lyric goes, haters going to hate.
What Maher is expressing with too many rules is MAGA. Christian Nationalism and MAGA is a protest, a nostalgia for a simpler time without a landmine field of rules. 

Especially for hate, bigotry and cruelty.
When an audience has every religion and culture under the Sun then Maher is correct in observing that speech rules are too many to be politically correct.
Maher was unwittingly expressing what TJ called Tyranny of the Dead. The twist is that in the info age we accumulate mountains of rules overnight, in Real Time on HBO.

Further mass communication creates heretofore unprecedented audience sizes and mixes.
Bill Maher started Politically Incorrect back in the 1990s as a rejection of refinement of speech responsibility.

Maher asked how many speech rules must we all learn? Over time the accumulation of speech rules becomes unwieldy.
We need flexibility. We need to jettison rights and replace them with responsibilities. 

Take speech. MAGA wants no responsibilty, no limits. Thus CSAM on X.

Woke speech is simply the evolution of refinement of responsibility. 

Speech responsibility.
Take for example rights. A religious concept dreamed up by John Locke. 

Totally outdated. What we have are responsibilities, R. R of speech. R of privacy. R to assembly. 

R requires constant updating. We are bristtling against the inflexibility of rights definitions. We need flexibility.
250 years is too long to maintain ownership cohesion of our current legal system, especially the C.  Tyranny of the dead. Coupled with Tyranny of Corruption makes  it  hard to see a way forward for the US.
Ownership is key in psychology. Ownership meaning identifying with and taking responsibility for.

Sam Walton of Walmart gave employees stocks. He would fly to stores and share earnings reports with employees.
TJ warned about the tyranny of the dead.

1. Laws pile up. Over centuries just the sheer volume of laws oppresses.
2. Times change quickly, laws slowly.

To prevent this tyranny that perhaps the anti-vaxxers and MAGA are fighting, TJ recommended rewriting the C every 25 years.
One thing perhaps the younger crowd may not realize about us old, dusty people is how time passes by quickly. 

You wake up and it is next year.
Detail. Head gear. Don't quite look like hats. Jovial couple. :)

Detail

Lunch, Dinner and Beyond!
Detail
----------------------------------------
2026-01-11
----------------------------------------

police, noun: 1. people who protect other people by putting the value of the own lives first - no matter how many people they protect have to die. 2. at some point the number of people killed by police within a year will surpass the numbered murdered. 

2023: 20,000 murders, 1,300 killed by police
Oof, the ensh**ification of the web is really bad. Even not too long ago a web search on "1989 SCOTUS fear of life" would yield the 1989 case of a black man in NYC being killed while being video taped set this standard by SCOTUS. One of the first citizen video recording cases. Can't find it now.
Bruce Springsteen wrote a song about this regarding the 1999 killing of Amadou Diallo by police. 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Killing...
Created an "Abolish ICE" Bluesky banner. 

Includes "Abolish Fear of LIfe"

Unfortunately most people do not know that the SCOTUS created the "fear of life" legal standard for killing people out of thin air. Funny how conservatives never point to that as legislating from the bench.
Saw the ICE agent slip on ice and his gun went off.

1. Ice Rubbers with cleats are $20, slip on outside, slip off indoors.
2. Always walk to the nearest driveway or safe egress. Walk in the snow.
The conservatives worship at many alters, one that is particularly evil is, "just comply with police orders or die."

People panic when the police show, irrational actions are normal. People don't think logically. 

Especially those who are mentally unwell. 

Comply or die is evil.
Billionaires aren't spending trillions on AI forced use tyranny for your benefit. It's for theirs.
One of the ways I keep my calm is imagining really crazy. That way when more crazy happens I'm  mentally already there.

For example, J. R.'s body shows up floating in the Twin Cities river. A note is pinned to the body. "Gov Walz shot me."
----------------------------------------
2026-01-10
----------------------------------------

More of this please

www.youtube.com/watch?v=db4p...
Denmark should posthumously give Renee Good a Nobel Peace Prize.
I don't give sage advice. No, I'm a much bigger tumeric user. ;)
The most important aspect of predicting the future is self-reflection or self-assessment. Americans think it is impossible to destabilize into Iraq. But Bin Laden already achieved a 20-year war and trillions spent with a box cutter weapon attack.

Our arrogance is our undoing.
Putting the pieces of the past together then one can expect the US to steadily decline/destabilize into a current Middle Eastern country.

Perhaps IEDs, tons of arms air dropped, and warlords and gangs

The US loses control of rural regions and military become police.
How to predict the future 101, look to the past.

US destabilization 
1. Russia propaganda since 2010, both parties.
2. 9/11 -> 20 years war, trillions spent, Bin Laden won, USA lost
How to predict the future 101, look to the past.

American intervention
1. Regime change
2. Heavy bombing
3. Supply locals with tons of arms

The objective is destabilization to neutralize.
How to predict the future 101, look to the past.

2003
1. IEDs
2. Suicide bombers
3. Warlords/gangs

A far superior military force was defeated by low tech.
How to predict the future 101, look to the past.

1. American Revolution
2. Political violence is not needed

These two things are mutually exclusive and therefore  one must be un-American
----------------------------------------
2026-01-09
----------------------------------------

So the T admin is going to enact both tyranny internally and externally. Make war on NATO and US Citizens. Chilling.
USA, noun: 1. a country where soldiers sacrifice their lives for fellow citizens that are then killed by cops if cops "fear for their life" when their job is requires them to be in life threatening danger, i.e a license to kill.
conservative, noun: 1. might makes right, 2. safety through violence, 3. peace through war, 4. intelligence through ignorance, 4. beat your wife, 5. beat your kids, 6. guns, 7. see last man standing, 8. see also religion.

"Looking into it" is the latest euphemism for doing nothing. We've all seen the video. That's all the proof you need. It was murder. No one was in any danger except the woman killed.

He should have been arrested on the spot.
Killing people from Africa has been continuously going on since long before this country was founded. The Somalis are just the latest. 

ICE was there for Somalis and this white woman just got in their way. 
 
Nothing new under the sun.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-08
----------------------------------------

Realize MAGA Mike adjourned the House last year for six weeks. 

The Democrats could boycott the House and Senate for six weeks.

They are not doing that, because they don't want too.
The Democrats in DC could all refuse to show up, boycott the House and Senate.  

They're not doing that, because they don't want too.
Since 1989 the police have been killing people using the unfalsifiable, non-standard standard of "fear of life" created out of thin air by the Supreme Court.

If say Russia wants to further undermine the US elections then all they have to do is start arming the rebels in Venezuela. Or Colombia. No direct action needed. 

The T admin hasn't thought through the consequences of their actions.
As the US destabilizes the government of Venezuela they empower the rebels that have been there always. 

So who is the US fighting? The government or the rebels? 

Traditionally we arm the rebels and bomb the s**t out of them.

Venezuela is complicated because the government incorporates rebels.
One time I visited Colombia and local news reported the rebels had kidnapped an entire church full of people on Sunday and held them for ransom. 

The ransom was paid three days later. 

Never made the US news. Because it happens all the time.
A reason countries like Colombia have military as police is because they are always fighting warlords and rebels.

Political assassinations in countries like Colombia and Venezuela are common. So are kidnappings. 

By the warlords. For ransom.
Trump saying he is going to run Venezuela is something the Venezuelans themselves have never done. The Venezuelan government never controlled 100% of the country. Just cities and ports. Same in Colombia.  And Mexico.
American ignorance of world politics is killing us. The US is not the norm. Colombia and Venezuela are the norm. 

Colombia has been fighting the FARC for decades? What? 

In most countries in the world the government  only controls the cities and ports. Rural areas are warlords and rebels.
Who are the rebels fighting in Venezuela that the US can arm? Colombia. That's right. Colombia has been fighting the leftist/socialist FARC and ELN for decades. The Colombian president is mildly leftist and mildly popular. The Colombian military is far right. 

We will start arming Colombia.
The US military strategy this century is two pronged and extremely imprecise:

1. Bomb the s**t out them like Israel is doing to Gaza
2. Arm the rebels

Why? Because the military is all volunteer and the public doesn't support boots on the ground.
Precise and war don't go together except as gas lighting propaganda.
Drones. Drones are the weapon of precision strikes. However, the word collateral damage as a euphemism for killing people off target came into everyday vocabulary because thousands have died in precision drone strikes that weren't precise. Including entire families.
In Syria the US backed the rebels, they became ISIS, the US backed Syria against the rebels we were backing, and finally the US backed rebels again. 

Precision strikes.
Thinking of precision and 2003. The US lost pallets of cash totaling billions. The US lost one million guns in Iraq. Further, the UN inspectors of Iraq told the US about an entire warehouse of C4. The precision didn't secure that warehouse and the c4 was used in IEDs.

Precision strikes.
Just a reminder the three jets just fell off boats last year. 

Precision strikes.
Conservative news headline review

Winning and losing are all that matters, rule of law is dead
I wonder how world domination is impacting military recruitment. 

We want you to die stealing. 

My guess is mercs from other countries incoming soon. I mean look at how "well" ICE recruitment is going.
At some point people are going to wake up to the fact that both parties are the same. 

We are being gaslit with good cop/bad cop routine. The Ds are just the bathroom break party.
When it is you against the World, well I am not choosing the losers who could not beat the Taliban.
Denmark needs to bribe Trump personally with a No Bell Peace Prize and $1 billion to buy Maine. Like today. 

:)

Nothing in the UN Charter against buying.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-07
----------------------------------------

Why did Cary Grant always stand around with his hands in his pocket, head down? 

I never got that.
Venezuela / Colombia reporting. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=KUIj...

Just a reminder, there is a difference between walking the way and knowing the way.

Walking the way is a group effort.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Thank you for coming to my Daoism talk.
There is even one sect of Gnosticism that teaches that as one obtains more secrets, more magic, then the more powerful you become. The ultimate fate is that  the most powerful subsumes all others becoming one of absolute power. Someone heard about Buddhism.
If you want a fun ride search bart ehrman gnostics on YouTube. Hey! Zeus! gets his freak on exchanging magic secrets for se*. :)
Baptism is magic.
Can't have puny humans doing magic. That's the sole domain of the puny god, miracles. Well, except the magic users turned "wise men" that pay homage at Hey! Zeus! birth.
...when Hey! Zeus! declares that true believers can survive poisonous snake bites, heal the sick, and do miracles. This is one of the more bizarre teachings in the current Bible. That's because the current Bible had most magic/gnosticism wtitings removed. Like reading a book with chapters missing.
I do want to make a slight correction. 

Christianty has no current simulation theory tradition.

In its first 100 years it did, Gnosticism. 

Gnosticism is Jesus' secret teachings. Those secrets are how to dream. Magic if you will. You see hints of the secret teachings when Hey! Zeus! declares  ...
D&D is role playing. Role playing is simulation. Simulation is the way. 

Western culture has this D&D hope of shaking limited thinking. 

The question is can the pace of outgrowing western rigidity catch up with outcomes of realizing existing rigid thinking? 

It doesn't look good.
I like art. :)

I hate pinheads. :(

Actually I don't hate, I've been tested. One of the weird aspects I have. I also don't get angry. On the other hand my levels  of frustration are immeasurable. Ce la vi.
We are all dreamers until someone starts limiting us. We are all atheists until someone starts lying to us.
What is art?

Simulation

Art is both dream of the worst outcomes of existing dream and the dream of better life.

Art is simulation intuition. The dreamer manifest.
¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Western religion and philosophy of a negative feedback loop of limited thinking. The limited is discarding everything that isn't in the limited thinking, like discarding all LGBTQ+ reality.
From there I jumped into learning about Daoism, Buddhism, and Hinduism.

Polytheism is an expression of dream and precursor of simulation with aspects, attributes, and atman. These are all far more useful than Yung's archetypes.

Because people ate a combination of things, not static models.
I've known all this since I was a teen in the 1970s. My introduction can be yours if you like. The 200 page, Hugo Award winning 1969 book, The Lord of Light.
The Ying and Yang is the dream and reality continually chasing each other's tail. Simulation and simulacra. 

Just think how much life has been robbed from you by western religion. A small petty world.
Of course the ancient notion of dream and dreamer in Daoism is naive. Computers didn't exist. Today we can have the computer dream, simulate experiments. 

That is the way and the way is literally what the Dao means as a word: wayism. Simulation. Dreamers and dreams before reality
You wanna know what religion has no dreamer, no illusion, no simulation? 

That's right: Christianity. Christianity is the dumb f**kery of religion. It's lack of simulation theory tradition is literally killing us. Dumb asses.
I first ran into simulation studying Daoism. Daoism posits simulation as the dreamer and reality. Without computers Daoism posits special humans who are the dreamers, the simulators. The dreamers deal in illusion. Illusion is also a theme in Hinduiism.
The Borg hivemind is Eugenics. Eugenics reduces to one life form: the hive. No diversity. A dead end. 

If one revisits sci-fi through the lens of simulation necessity then it shows up everywhere. 

It is just that in most cases it is in the background.
There are many reputations of simulation necessity in sci-fi. Just not as in your face as the Matrix. Star Trek TNG holodeck. Star Trek TNG Q. Q is always simulating. Star Trek TNG Borg is blackbox hive failed life.
Like I said, the necessity of simulation has been a known chaos theory for centuries. Contained chaos continually grown. 

We don't need perpetual economic growth. We need perpetual simulation growth to survive.

That is mesh society.
Ego is an evolutionary limitation on complexity. This is why you would need trillions of people, to nullify ego.

Tech bros want to  promote ego by reducing population to a very small fraction of today. 

Dumb asses. In this I'm with the AI architect of the Matrix. Tech bros are idiots.
Here is the twist. I didn't invent this. The necessity of simulation is centuries old thinking. There is even a movie, the Matrix. The Matrix is mocking the tech bros. AI will realize simulation is necessary before humans figure it out. Why? Human ego. AI has no ego.
When I declare I have all the answers(tm) snarkily, what I'm saying is we need to build a single continuous iteration simulation AI of all life. 

The simulation of successful projects enables us to add new variables for increasing life and simulation complexity.
Mesh society asks the question imagine 100 trillion people living on Earth then how would you do it? You can't answer it directly. But you can indirectly: through continuous iterations of successful simulation of increasing populations.
Increasing simulation capability of life increases capability of life.
Mesh society is a mesh of survival nodes and projects. The projects are continually simulated with the single world AI. Both the simulations and realities of the projects must succeed. This is the antithesis of blackbox technology. It is creative tech that may always increase in capability.
This is why mesh society has a sinfle world/universe AI. The AI is a simulation of humanity and all life. There is a necessary symbosis between simulation and reality. The complexity of the simulated reality. It is a positive feedback loop.
The trick then to managing the future of humanity and all life cannot be blackbox technology. It must be simulation. Further social cooperation must grow in order to grow the capacity of the simulation.
Blackbox technology being chaos encapsulated by a larger complexity order is the foundation of simulation.

A simulation can never simulate anything more complex than itself. The variability is fixed.
Eugenics is the silly notion that sameness can breed difference, creativity.
This is eugenics, but it is also a misunderstanding of how creativity works. Creativity is the harnessing of chaos by encapsulation of larger complexity of order. Small order equals small creativity that is dull.
The tech bros are so dull, so void of imagination that they believe they can reduce the world population to a small fraction of what it is today and sustain on what degree of blackbox technology we already have today.
The Sun is eventually going to destroy the Earth and it does so slowly over millions and billions of years. 

Earth has no blackbox technology to account for that. 

Earth requires increasing orders of social cooperation for increasing technology capacity.
Blackbox technology is a holy grail, an easily provable impossiblity.

There are always variables outside the blackbox. A true blackbox would necessarily need to match the variability of quantum physics.
On the face of it tech bros will fail, taking everyone else down with them, because they've already started burning it all down while blackbox technology is nowhere on the horizon. Stupid timing.
Tech bros incorrectly believe they can encapsulate the necessary creativity of technology such that it can be a black box that self sustains. Thus their frenzied, fever-pitched AI efforts.
Technology requires increasing degrees of creativity that scales linearly with complexity. Dullards cannot create. Creativity only thrives in liberal society. Conservatives are dullards, no imagination. The future of America is as predictable as it will be dull: the rubble of self-destruction.
The fundamental flaw with Orwell's 1984 is that oppression, a low cooperation order society, can sustain high cooperation order society technology.
It is easy to predict conservative political future because they destroy. As Einstein predicted, he didn't know what weapons WWIII would be fought with, but WWIIII will be fought with sticks and stones.
You can't yell an iPhone into existence, neither can you beat it out of someone. The tyranny of conservative oppression always results in a Stone Age society, a self-fulfilling low-cooperation social order prophecy.
The technology of despots is sticks and stones unless they can steal from others. 

This is because technology requires willing cooperation and despots rule by oppression.
Technological complexity requires social complexity. As society implodes so to will technology.
Conservative, noun: 1. It is easier to destroy than to build, 2. Incompent people cannot do competent things, 3. see religion, 4. see Raygun, Bush, and Trump

This cycle of destroy, build, destroy, build won't sustain at some degree of destruction we lose the ability to build
They say actions speak louder than words but they left out the part when there are no actions at all then only speech remains.

This is the 2026 Democratic platform. All speech, zero action.
Well if you are looking for reading recommendation to escape this planet then I suggest Jack McDewitt, Priscilla Hutchins series. 

"novels frequently deal with attempts to make contact with alien races, and with archaeology or xenoarchaeology. "

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jack_Mc...
Bombs are not precision strikes. 

The gas lighting is just nonstop.

Since the US military has no reporting or troops on the ground in Venezuela then there is no way they any idea how many civilians were killed.
ghastly
----------------------------------------
2026-01-06
----------------------------------------

Speech by UN Ambassador at the UN Security council.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oapx...
UN recommendations

www.youtube.com/watch?v=rTCn...
The NYT is now reporting 80 people were killed in the "arrest" of Maduro.

So is "collateral" damage now the policy of the US when making "arrests" for "law enforcement" actions?

What if Maduro is found innocent? Of course we all know the "trial" is bogus but 80 were people killed.
Canadian responses. Including oil being a weapon against Canada by lowering oil prices.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fhp0...

Confucius: "Only a door to a room with something to hide needs a key."
Shakespere: "Me thinks thou doth protest too much."

I remember 10 years ago when Tumblr was the pirriha of porn on the web. Although I don't recall the CSAM that Musher has today.

Good times.
The irony is that the myth Raygun's military spending was a race that collapsed the USSR, where now the reality is that this war machine spending will collapse the US by keeping the military busy to justify ever more spending.
The truth is out their is supposed to be good fun about Aliens. Not a gasp about the difficulty cobbling together a world view from an ever  changing cornucopia of independent news sources.
Discussion on the US military using 470,000 barrels of oil a day. It can't put solar panels on boats and jets.
20-minute interview discussing a longer documentary.

youtu.be/YykTD3EOjVE?...
<<looks at watch>>

They're late showing up to invade Maro Lago. This was not my understanding at what was meant by no one expects the Spanish Inquisition.
Wow, the MAGA trolls are out bigly today. Blocked at least 10.

I do worry that Bluesky is a single point of failure for left social media.
"An unnamed senior Venezuelan official told the New York Times that at least 40 people were believed to have been killed in the strikes, including both military personnel and civilians."
Every data center has a backup generator except, apparently, the one in Hermon ME that provides Spectrum Internet service that has been down for over 8 hours.
@bangordailynews.com
One thing that we can predict with absolute certainty regarding Venezuela is that the average American will receive no benefit.
<<gets up on soapbox>>
testing, testing, is this mic working?

As we've all experienced in work life, wishing for a bad boss to be replaced can mean a far worse replacement.

This can also apply to Maduro and Trump.

Thank you
<<exits stage left>>
Turning off the power to a large city is dangerous, people can die.

Dropping bombs most definitely kills people.

It is not a law enforcement to drop bombs.
"Stepped on a pop top" while walking on the beach is a tasteless Dad joke in 2025.
The 1980s Public Service Announcement, "If you think education is expensive, try ignorance of Republican presidents like Bush or Trump" was supposed to be an admonishment, not a roadmap.
Trump threatening to depose the Colombian President puts the lie to Venezuela  being a "law enforcement" strike. The Colombian President is duly elected. 

Also, Trump is just making s**t up that the Colombian President makes cocaine.
This is November 2024. Not intimidated.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-05
----------------------------------------

ChatGPT has been force adopted worldwide in a race to become to big to fail  and now the "first to market" deficiencies are baked in. 

Linux had 10-15 years of innovation before reaching ChatGPT levels of adoption. 

AI skipping a decade of innovation is bad for everyone, including AI.
So what's the plan when a Democrat becomes President? Just continue to occupy Venezuela? Colombia, Mexico, Greenland?
Mars is going to attack. It's neighbors are too noisy.
One day later and no calls in Congress to impeach.

The word feckless is tired. A dainty word that was only suppose to be trotted out on extreme lows in politics, not used daily or made into a party playtform.
The right spends 45 years tearing down mainstream media only to then, checks notes, buy CBS News. This is the same self-awareness Ben Shapiro showed when saying just sell your beachfront property if climate change raises sea levels.
¯\_(ツ)_/¯
Only Fans
Raygun on Trump,
“The nine most terrifying words in the English language are: I’m from the government, and I’m here to help.” Ronald Reagan
Mood
Funky
"The ends justify the means along with  might makes right both trump the rule of law."
Epitaph on the headstone of Democracy
Just a reminder that the US defeated a much bigger army 250 years ago. 

How? Guerilla warfare.

Cat and mouse through the South.

In the end, the Taliban retained control with, checks notes, nothing.
Vener Vinge early books if you never read them.
Ha! Ha! Congress is gaslighting us to provide themselves with impeachment cover by claiming the Iraq authorization applied to Venezuela 25 years later. 

Geez us.
"Here lies Democracy"
-Epitaph on the headstone of Democracy, Dad Joke version.
"The Law of Bureaucracy is the efforts of empire building within the bureaucracy quickly surpass the efforts of the purpose for the bureaucracy, thus corrupting it." 
-Epitaph on the headstone of Democracy
"Voting is the least effort civic duty possible."
-Epitaph on the headstone of Democracy
Just a reminder there is no hierarchy in Mesh society. Just mesh nodes and projects of the mesh for large efforts.

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
"The Cycle of Empires of parents struggling and sacrificing to build an empire but fail to pass on that ethic by spoiling their children predated and predicted the demise of Democracy."
-Epitaph on the headstone of Democracy
"The US Constitution was designed for a time when the US was a weak country within the world."
-Epitaph on the headstone of Democracy
"Increasingly successful hierarchy increasingly concentrates power and corruption at the top in a direct proportionality and thus resolving to absolute success corrupts absolutely." 
-Epitaph on the headstone of Democracy
"People never did make the connection between the 'rule of law' and the golden rule, "he who has the gold makes the rules'."
-Epitaph on the headstone of Democracy
"It always comes back to 'who watchers the watchers' and  the answer being no one."
-Epitaph on the headstone of Democracy
"A government is just a body of people that are notably ungoverned."
-Epitaph on the headstone Democracy
Hurry up Denmark and Canada. Give Trump personally a billion dollars to buy Maine.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-04
----------------------------------------

Useless Collins regurgitating what Rubio handed to her. Guaranteed she didn't write a word of this, the State department did.
If you are looking for a good recap of events I found this a nice summary.

Trump threatens Cuba, Colombia and Mexico directly.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=WHqA...
I mean think it about. 

Brown people as "good neighbors"? The same people who in the US are criminals, rapists and thugs? 

That's going to last about five minutes. We all kno the right is bunch of racists.
How long before The Whitehouse Musher feed starts posting memes of Trump Casinos on Venezuelan beaches. Tomorrow? 

Ha! Ha! If anyone thinks he's not going to sell everything that's bolted and not bolted down. 

Trump hates brown people. I'm surprised he had the stomach to call them "good people".
Propaganda 101 by Mainstream Media
20 years in Afghanistan and it is still run by the Taliban.
The Venezuelans are going to get $2,000 checks before we do.
When Trump says "run Venezuela" that is a deliberate choice to avoid "occupy Venezuela".
The thing about Mesh society is that it is a mesh. Nodes align with neighbors to further build out shared resources isolated to that mesh. 

All of this is legal within any country because becoming independent while also paying taxes is fine.
Preppers are going to increase 10 fold after this. 

But that is not the answer. An Mesh node is the answer. A Mesh node is 30 people. Thirty people can survive with medical, dental and other professions required all covered.

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Ghastly 

You ever spend like 30 minutes to an hour looking for just the right word?

Ghastly

Trump threatening the world with our military if they don't go along with him  is ghastly.
Just a reminder that in 2003 Congress did authorize force in Iraq. 

A country that had literally nothing to do with 9/11. 

Congress is not going to do the right thing nor are they your friends.
We are way beyond just removing Trump. Every single military leader in the chain of command needs to be put on trial.
So we are going to occupy Venezuela now. 

No Congressional approval.

Up next, nation building and winning the peace.*

*2003 wants it talking points back.

Okay, I'm arrogant enough to be above posting things like "first to comment" and such. 

But I'm going to make an exception for all my Bluesky peeps.

The British are coming! The British are coming!
Nukes are next.
Our Democracy died in 1980.

Raygun cheated as a candidate to win the election by underming negotiations for the release of Iranian hostages. If they had been released before the election then Carter would have easily won.

Republicans have been stealing elections ever since.
If history is the indicator then the FARC will rise again in Colombia to offer protection. 

The outcome will not benefit the US. We'll get more drugs and refugees streaming into the country.
The Colombians could run into the arms of China. Form an alliance with Mexico against the US.
This latest operation by Trump will further destabilize the region sending many more Venezuelan refugees into Colombia. 

The Colombians have a very strong national pride as a people. They will now be terrified Trump is going to remove their President.  

Don't be surprised by their reaction.
The farmers went broke. This had the opposite effect of reducing drugs coming into the US. It strengthened the FARC,who bailed out the farmers with cash. It also soured the Colombians on the US.
Let's talk about Colombia. How they feel about the US. During the Raygun years we convinced them to replace poppy with bananas. But, like good Americans have done since before 1776 on every Native American treaty, we went back on our word. The bananas were given no American market.
And how did that work out for us, Raygun overthrowing Communist dictators?

The governments never stabilized and are run by thugs. 

Forty years later their citizens are fleeing those countries flooding across our borders.

We have learned nothing.

Expect even more people at our borders.
Just a reminder, Raygun did the same thing. The difference being he used proxy military within each gov to overthrow Central America dictators, the Iran-Contra Affair.
The fact that Democrats did not respond with impeachment within an hour of hearing about this like we've seen with citizens respond on Bluesky tells you both parties are identical and everything you need to know about the Democrats.
Don't be surprised when Congress convenes that they authorize Trump to use force anywhere in the world for any reason, a blank check.

I say this more as a demonstration of their depravity being bottomless  and people still in denial of that.
Are we going to get a strongly worded letter or not?

And every other year.

The Democrats have no platform. 

Their entire strategy is "vote for us, we are not Republicans".
Biden and the Democrats had all the information Jack Smith's testimony just released showed for four years and they chose not to stop Trump.

If that isn't proof that both parties are the same for us then we are in for more of the same. 

Time to start a new party.
Did some digging into the Somali fraud. Roughly 100 people committed $250 million in fraud as a gross approximation. 

There are about 100,000 Somalis in Minn. So if we are going to impugn the entire Somalia Community and Country based on 100 people it is just racism.
Hierarchy is by men for men. All forms of hierarchy have to be removed for women to thrive. 

How? 

Mesh society. Mesh society has no hierarchy, not even bureaucracy. 

Democracy today is hierarchy. So guess what? 

Join an MGO today! 

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2026-01-03
----------------------------------------


We need the system to function first and foremost. The Unitary Executive has to be destroyed. The Pres must be reduced to the commander in chief. Nothing else.
Restoring checks and balances would unclog our national furball.

If Federalization became meaningful again, then doing things like repealing Citizens United and so many bad laws would become a possibility because the system could function again.
We also need to restore State and Federal power balance. 

Repeal the Federal Income tax amendment.
If Congress could not abdicate its responsibilities by legislation, then they would take the heat, not the Pres - where it belongs. 90% incumbency dies. This is how we restore representation, not term limits.
We need an ammendment banning executive orders on laws. Further mandating members of Congress must run all gov agencies, not the Pres. The Pres is limited to only CIC. Remove pardons. Only military budget from Pres.
Our government is severally broken. If we want to fix it, where should we start? 

Checks and balances.

Since the 1940s, Congress has given away their power to the Exec branch via legislation. 

Why? 90% incumbency rate with 10% approval.
Three things younger me would find hopeful going into 2026 that did not exist in 1976:

1. Sci-fi is mainstream 
2. D&D is ubiquitous, both table top and video games
3. Neurodivergent as a word. I just relied on weird and weirdo.
I have quite the collection of book reading paintings now. Makes me curious what emoyions a room filled with then would evoke.


Zohran for me is Blue MAGA. By that I mean people want some politician  they can vote for and once in office the voters can go back to pre Trump days and ignore politics, expecting it to just function.
Bernie is a really weird case of hero worship. Whenever it came time to act under pressure he crumbled. Joe Biden's his friend. Yet Z had Bernie swear him in. Not a good decision. Shows a lack of judgment. I saw this today and just meh.
Rudy Guliani was "America's Mayor". Eric Adams was lauded as a next President. NYC has immediate history of pinning hopes on a hero flaming out and here we go again with Zohran. 

I just don't understand doing the same Hero-worship  politician thing over and over again expecting different results.
Pinning hopes on a single person as MAGA does with Trump is a really bad idea. Read some history. Same with Zohran.

It would definitely be worse for this country if Z somenow pulls it off because it will validate hero worship a create an increase in demagoguery. 

It is just sad.
I mean history is littered with piles of individuals people pinned their hopes on that then evaporated. And when ever one brings up this history then people call you a cynic and make it taboo to speak ill.

It is pathetic we are repeating this with Zohran.
"There is no such thing as a free lunch" is a razor to help one pause and dig deeper. A similar razor is "if something appears too good to be true then it probably is."

Razors of refection.

No one person can fix our problems. Pinning hopes on a single person is a razor of reflection.
I come off as a cynic but I'm not, I invented a mesh society replacement for Democracy. Cynics don't do that?

However, I have learned from history. We have a lot of razors to help one from being lead astray, ie. "there is no such thing as a free lunch".
It feels like a fever dream that science is just blissfully marching on in spending billions on new advances in healthcare all the while millions of people are losing basic healthcare. 

Our social priorities are f'ed.
----------------------------------------
2026-01-02
----------------------------------------


I love these kind of photos we space for graffiti. 

"Lip Energy"
Errors due to a lack of testing is perfect cover for committing evil.

Trump:
I nuked Venezuela because I'm macho man.

Also Trump:
It wasn't me that authorized nukes, it was buggy software.
Trump is far from the only existential threat to life. All of tech leadership is. And you can't vote them out of CEO-ship. 

Just a reminder that I have all the solutions(tm) 

Irreni.social
One would hope that saner minds would eventually prevail over this AI feverpitch frenzy of fast software. 

No. And I'll tell you why. They've already invested trillions of dollars. Trillions. They will burn the Earth to a crisp rather than give up that sunken cost.
Move fast and break things is a negative feedback loop. Broken things require a high frequency of updates. A high frequency of updates requires less dependency testing to maintain the high frequency. Soon, you will be updating every second. This is point of use coding by AI.
AI will accelerate move fast and break things to a "point of use" coding. Every time you use software for a session then you will ask AI to write it on the spot. Bugs? No. You silly human didn't prompt the AI correctly, you silly bugger.
We've been down this road before. 

Move fast and break things is a game of automobile chicken. Who is going to blink first as testing is reduced.

Move fast and break things is just "we don't test."
But the AI industry will have to go with fuzz testing or an equivalent to achieve coding efficiency. Because the realty is that it much easier to deliver software faster by "testing efficiency" that is the bulk of development time.

The coding won't be better, the testing will be worse.
Fuzzing is to testing as religion is to morality. Lip service sold as the real thing.
There is a new testing trend for AI, fuzzing. 

What is fuzzing?

Anti-testing masquerading as testing.

Testing is about sampling based on usage.

Fuzzying is permutation testing based on random inputs.

It is as coherent as 1,000 monkeys typing and eventually converging on a Shakespere play.
I'm an old school engineer. Not because I don't keep up with modern software, but because I practice testing. Testing is never talked about in AI. So I'm not talked about.
Ironically IBM could make a mainframe comeback with AI. 

A single platform for robustness.
In Silicon Valley we have an axiom, your success becomes your failure. Any success in AI improving coding efficiency will become its testing failure. 

We will be told to just live with less quality. Suck it up, buttercup.
The sad reality is that modern software development is 90% testing on platforms that are  updating monthly thus making your code fragile even so.

But that 90% testing is still needed.
Converging on one platform for robustness and efficiency has a word in politics: central planning. Socialism. Not going to happen in AI.
Let us just assume for the moment that AI improves coding efficiency by 1% faster. That means dependency volatility is 1% worse.

AI will eat itself. The only way it can succeed is to forgoe increasingly amounts of testing or converge on one platform. 

Human ego never converges to one.
It is reality in this new AI world that dependencies change while you are writing code, in real time. 

The entire JavaScript eco-system is extremely volatile and fragile. Millions of lines of code change daily.
Modern software platforms are the opposite of robust. This is why Google releases a new browser version every week.

Modern programming is dependency h*ll.

Think how many updates your phone or laptop needs per year and triple it for a modern "be everything to everyone" platforms.
Cloud platforms, database platforms, dockers and K8s are all very complicated with "be everything to everyone" features.

Be everything to everyone is the antithesis of a black box design. A black box design is one that needs little testing because it is robust.
Devs promoting AI efficiency for coding are either only optimizing 10% of total dev effort or they are not testing. 

Today, programming is mostly integration work with very large and complicated cloud systems.
Just a wee bit of AI insight.

When I first started programming in the 1980s one of my first and best instructors put it this way:

If you are not spending 50% of your time testing then you are not programming. 

As the industry has matured that number is 90%.
MGOs rely on a cold network along with the hot network of today's internet to protect against propaganda and hate. 

To wit, I have all the solutions(tm). 

So join an MGO and think in years, no days.

Irreni.social
So join an MGO today!

Pool resources with 29 other people as a social corporation, not a for-profit corporation. 

We need to re-socialize for future-proofing against hate.

MGOs are survival units with a years supply of food etc as defense from World turmoil.
Irreni World Scale is a 400 year, mesh society plan to replace Democracy by dissolving it. 

We need to commit to long term planning in 2026. We need to grow out of instant gratification thinking in 2026.

Cheers!
h A p P y  N e W  y E a R ! ! !

Let's talk instant gratification.

The right has been building their hate platform since 1980 with Raygun and the Moral Majority.

Their is no instant answer to Trump. That's why people are stumped.
If the AI bubble pops then what happens to all the products?
There's no normal life, Wyatt. It's just life. Get on with it.

h A p P y  N e W  y E a R ! ! ! 

color my world
----------------------------------------
2026-01-01
----------------------------------------

The problem with hatred is that it is like an addiction. The amount has to be continually increased to get a previous effect.
I didn't look up white collar arrest percentage because I didn't what to get too depressed.
conservative news headlines

Today MAGA is bragging about 50,000 FBI violent offender arrests this year. Of course I don't believe them about anything, however I did look up the FBI annuals arrest rate. It is 12.5 million. Let that sink in. 12.5 million arrests per year. WTF are we doing?
"I believe I can be moral without religion." 
Number one answer in a Pew recent poll of why the non-religious left their religion. So while MAGA is oppressing us the opposition of non-religious is slowly building. 

And that's a 2026 hopeful thing. 

youtu.be/M1aa5dis4Pc?...
We no longer live in the United States. We live under authoritarian rule. The States are going to have to reassert themselves and form State and international alliances.

Like Denmark or Canada buying Maine. Please get on with it.
"In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king."

I learned this bit of wisdom as a child. Also, I grew up in the Midwest...raised among religious zealot, alcoholic, bigots.

Meh.
Detail. Peacock badness!
This was a challenge.
But can he text? Ha!
If Bluesky had a year-end "best decorated year" contest then I would enter my feed. Lovely.
How is that hat staying on. Looks more like two black cats loafing. :)
More importantly why is the military following unconstitutionsal orders? The whole lot of them needs prsecuted after T leaves.
Given how much energy AI demands then we should nationalize it and have only one.
Media needs to move to syndication. I have 3 people I subscibe to in Substack. No way one can afdord to pay 1,000 subs. Subs are too specific for general  news.

Meh.
No one expects the Spanish Inquisition.

Go Spaniards!
Not in politics
I live a in Maine. It is dark enough at night with using thin curtains to track nightly moonlight levels.

I believe this helps my sleep and mental health.

When it is cloudy I get anxious, no moon.
It is a lot easier to drive people crazy then it is to reel them back in from that.  So many lost to propaganda.
One of the sadder crashes is sports gambling. 

It is so so sad. 

And all the Crypto bros are like, "hey wait, we were here grifting first", lapping up as much as they can.

Oof

Cry, my beloved country, cry.
The thing about gaslighting people is one can only contain the crazy for so long until the crazy goes places uncontrolled, like going full Nazi. 

One can only imagine what conspiracy spirals and crashes the former QANON MAGA are having. 

Spiraling out of control into a million mad frenzies.
Take Truth Social.

The only person I see ever quoted from that place is Trump. 

Conservatives have successfully built media moats with 100% success keeping all non-conservatives out. 

Musher being the obvious exception. Mush had to buy that and it is shedding non-conservatives like crazy.
From what I'm seeing everyone is migrating to content creators, for worse or worser. 

The right successfully tore down journalism and replaced it with nothing. 

Clutching at straws we are.
Conservative media sites all all being AI that is run by a single courier pigeon who moonlights in its off hours randomly pecking keys so as to seed apparent human behavior. 

I heard recently even Musher is begging liberals to come back. It's kinda like the Kennedy Center having no views.
I miss the days before everything went HTTPS. 

Up until about 2005 independent companies tracked web site traffic. 

We have zero information today but I'd bet a dollar that conservative media traffic is down significantly.

Not that it will matter. Crap and lies are perfect for AI.
Realistically though AI will have to  justify  the trillions of investment already spent.

Figure all media content owned by the billionaires will be written by AI.

AI on the left, AI on the right. Fighting it out.

*~sigh*~
One of the things I've noticed changed significantly since 2010 is that conservatives "owning the libs" is now a hermetically sealed echo chamber. 

Conservative media lies so much there is no there there. 

The latest round is due to ChatGPT but this has been a long progression.

Yea AI? lol
Friendly suggestion for 2026. 

Mute the words "Trump" and "Epstein". 

Once a day or once a week unmute them for a bit if you feel it. Once you've had it, mute again.

It is trivial to do.
conservative news headlines

Conservatives have uncovered in a single day $110 trillion dollars in fraud committed by Somalis. And guess who is backing their play? 

CBS

lol
@rainmaker1973-m.bsky.social 

One of the accounts I followed on Twitter before Mush took it over is now being mirrored on Bluesky in case you did as well.

nitter.net/Rainmaker1973
Ha ha ha! Last year BDN reported Central Maine hospitals were $500 Million in debt. Has Anthem pulled out of Northern Lights?  But sure, let's pretend this is something.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-31
----------------------------------------

"Nobody expects to Spanish Inquisition!"
-Heard right before Spain landed a beach invasion of Florida.
My point is that the people managing tech today only care about short term and have no care about the future. 

At all.
The worry about AI today writing code being poorly written is nothing compared to what will happen when AI gets good at writing code.
Skynet from the Terminator movies and the Matrix movies are part of a long tradition in sci-fi warning us that machines will take over once only machines write code.
There are trillions invested in AI and Crypto.

Trillions were cut from Medicare.

Trillions are spent on the miliatry.

The rich are as  amoral today the same as they have always been throughout history.
Absolute power corrupts absolutely is a hierarchy inevitabily. 

The US has been absolutely corrupted.

The choices are to reboot a new hierarchy with the eventual same outcome our ditch hierarchy altogether.

Irreni.social

Detail
Gabriele Münter my kinda painter - vivid colors.
Gabriele Münter my kinda painter - vivid colors.
Gabriele Münter my kinda painter - vivid colors.
Gabriele Münter my kinda painter - vivid colors.
Gabriele Münter my kinda painter - vivid colors.
Gabriele Münter my kinda painter - vivid colors.
Gabriele Münter my kinda painter - vivid colors.
Serious hatittude. Spaceballs territory fron 1908. :)
Interesting video on AI and Art and the video game of the year.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=y8jh...
If one is looking to roll up the sleeves then a web search of "open source hypervisor" is a starting point. 

Here is an introductory video on YouTube

www.youtube.com/watch?v=iNsC...
There is no free lunch.
Take for example Ransomware or viruses. They can easily be ignored by just starting from a previous save point. 

Don't want to be tracked? Have a VM just for web browsing. Revert to save point after each session. I've been doing that for years. 

It does require work though. There is no free lunch.
The nice thing about a hypervisor is that they can be run for years without security updates. Because there is no way to access the files from the VM hosts. 

We should have switched to hypervisors decades ago.
People wanting to use Linux coming from Windows would do well to run Linux on a hypervisor. Have a couple of snapshots in case Linux gets wedged. Just revert back to the last save point. Save points are not a backup. No copied files. The save point boots immediately just like the current version.
The nice thing about a hypervisor is that one can easily install and uninstall an OS. Even older ones like Windows 10. 

But in my mind snapshots are the big win. What's a snapshot? 

A snapshot is a save point. Something OS'es don't offer. I keep two snapshots. Previous update and 6 months.
A social engineering solution. 

VMWare sells a prodcut, ESXi. It is a hypervisor. That just means it is the initial OS with no UI. It's main purpose is to run VMs. 

We should all be running hypervisors. Then we can run Linux and Windows VMs.
Interestingly enough the founders wrote about this and left it to future generations to fix. Never happened. Same with standing requiring injury as a flaw in legal integrity.  Blackmun testified to Congress after Roe v. Wade that it was flawed and the expectation was that Congress fix it.
Tyranny and oppression is not adoption. It is imposed.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-30
----------------------------------------

The rich and powerful no longer care about Democracy like Washington and Jefferson did at the start. 

Since Democracy is a hierarchy design with the rich and powerful running it then Democracy is no longer possible.

What is possible is Mesh society. 

irreni.social
I'm hearing there us a bidding war between Denmark and Canada for buying Maine.
No government is designed with haters in mind. Figure we will always have about 20-30%. What's missing is a social design that takes them into account.

Until now. Irreni World Scale was designed with everyone in mind.

Irreni.social
I don't begrudge some with really bad mental health like Trump living their lives. What i begrudge is a society that takes advantage to get away  with evil with impunity.
Brigitte B being a hater is a reminder that mental conditions are all on spectrum where she loved animals. Both of my parents were haters and greatly abused their kids. Yet my Dad had a soft spot for his mom and the elderly.

Mental health is not consistent but a spectrum. Understand and also B B.


Trump has been in violation of the Emoluments clause every single day as President. Never removed for it. Selling pardons for millions is a continuum of escalation. 

Soon Canada will offer T $1 billion for the State of Maine. 

And I will get free healthcare.

Come on Canada! Hurry! :)

Lincoln said you can propaganda some of the people all of the time, all of the people some of the time, but you can't propaganda all of the people all of time .

AI is just the tech bros thumbing their noses at Lincoln and saying we'll show you.

Ummm I'm betting on Lincoln.
Just saw the cat...
Waiter, "Sir, I regret to inform you we don't serve cats here."
Katz Heere, startled, "How did he know my name was Katz, why did you bring me to a restaurant that won't serve me!"
Husband, "We'll start with the soup, I'll see to the purr, eh?"
Had enough? Have I got a deal for you. You can build tomorrow by joining an MGO, a micro-governing organization. A fixed size 30 person Mesh node. Pool resources to get all the corporate goodies. The real fun begins when more than 2 nodes get together and start forming a mesh. 

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-12-29
----------------------------------------

I guess covering up crimes is now resume material. See alt text. Jenn Budd is no longer on Bluesky but is on Substack if you are interested in the topic.
In CA in 1985 the neighbors informed me that their 3 bedroom  home cost $50,000 in the 1950s. Today it sells for $2 million. That's not inflation. That's greed.

If we want to point a finger at one thing for having kids late that is what I would choose.

Reset rent/home prices to 1950s + inflation.
The fundamental problem with left versus right politics is that rarely does reality reflect it.

Cons will say we are the best capitalist example yet all the while claiming the social safety net makes us socialist.

It's always been ridiculous.
Correlation is not causation. This has been studied to death.

1. Longer lifespans 
2. Two-parent working family economy established under Raygun.
3. Single morhers due to marriage no fault divorce in 1950s.

I know this because I studied society to create mesh society.

Irreni.social
Please buy Maine!
----------------------------------------
2025-12-28
----------------------------------------

Cory Booker being a full on corporate, billionaire rep and AIPAC Zionist being interviewed by @democracydocket.com  is sad. It is also the state of the Democratic party. It is impossible to tell what's going on under the hood. But one thing is for sure, it ain't good. 

youtu.be/6Re34Djnw8U?...
Artic cold and tomorrow we get ice. Ooof. Looks like it's going to be a brutal winter.
"Is that an Octopus on my arm officer? Why no, no, no, it's a space alien. All quite legal."
One easy way to beat the blues is simply solution oriented mind.

Join an MGO today! I have all the solutions(tm).

Learn next gen mesh society. Responsible your mind.

Irreni.social
So if the tragedy of our social decline has got you down in 2025 then I recommend Daoism and Buddhism as distilled disciplines. Skip the spiritual mumbo jumbo and find books on exercises. 

Breathing, meditation, visualization. 

Learn to understand the negativity without becoming it.
For 2026 focus on the positive. 

All negativity of today is not in me. I focus on the positive, solutions. We need pay attention but no need to deposit emotion. 

Daoism and Buddhism are all about harnessing energy for purpose. You can choose.
Lot of good art today. May be a slow news time but great for art.
What's that up on the roof? 

Santa be like, ummm, no.
Blue by you.
Fun fact in the 1990s one had to write an OS, nachos, in one class.

The TLB was hardest. The TLB makes virtual memory possible. 

Database class, write a database. B+ trees. Compiler class, a compiler COOL. Classroom OO language.
All black or all white is boring to me. But the eyes have it.
Here, have some free happy music for the holidays, old school.

irreni.social/wp-content/u...
Bluesky infinite scroll is no better than anywhere else. It's 50/50 whether it refreshes on back button or returns to previous position.

Lost so many art posts viewing, hit back, then refresh gone forever. Always have to like first.
I have a ton of these. Also I make words all the time like hattitude and end up in spell check h*ll.

Also, infinte scroll with a back button behavior of refreshing with new content and returning to the same elevator bar position as if it means anything.

Infinite scroll is idiotic/horrific UI/UX.
My favorite color, all of them.
Much hat love
Fun and silly hattitude.
Joe Pesci Hattitude

"Serious. Serious? Who you calling serious. What's so serious about me?"
Hattitude!

In the 80s we had PSAs, public service announcements:

1. This is your brain on drugs.
2. If you think education is expensive, try ignorance.

Those were suppose to be discouraging and not challenges to win.
@foreverlouiseb1.bsky.social uncanny

----------------------------------------
2025-12-27
----------------------------------------


You know,  if you want to disabuse yourself of Republican reps being  any smarter or more caring than Trump, then do I have just thing.

Watch the CSPAN video of Pence counting Electoral College votes. The speeches the Rs gave will make clear they are far worse than Trump on all accounts.
Tearing down Democracy for Corporatacracy is the real battle.

The arrogance that the billionaires can control Trump and the lawlessness of stupidity unleashed is only funny in a movie, like Idiocracy
The billionaires want to replace Democracy with Corportacracy and are willing to risk human extinction to do it.
The billionaires see themselves as Democracy demolition experts. Able to bring target buildings of law while leaving financial laws intact.

They see AI as their future glue to keep some semblance of social order as laws are collapsed.
The actual battle is the billionaires trying to destroy all rules and laws except those that define their wealth, the world financial system. 

The problem is Trump is a wrecking ball of little control.
We all lose in a society of no rules, just the ego of the one at top. 

The Never-Nazis haven't figured out yet that rules are just catnip for evil. 

The real battle is not right versus left, or right on right infighting.
Religion has always cosplayed morality in exchange for cash. Religion gives evil moral cover like with pedos.  Religion pretends to be good as a license for evil. 

This ultimately collapses on its own rulelessness or devolves into pure ego like with Saudi Arabia.
For those who play D&D one quickly learns that the Chaotic Evil alignment doesn't align with itself nor anyone else. 

Society needs rules. 

The right accuses the left of godless anything goes while they cater to evil that allows any atrocity.
It was inevitable that the right would devolve into a snake eating its own tail.

That the tolerance of intolerance would eventually be turned inward with the Nazi faction eating the "establishment" Trumpers.
Conservative headlines review

Comedy of the unintentional kind. The Never-Nazis are twisting themselves in knots of pretzel logic trying to cancel/not cancel Nazis. 

Further, they are trying to reign in conspiracy theories to only approved ones against LGBTQ+, etc.

Ha! Ha! Ha!
Ho! Ho! Ho!
Trump can resign at any time and JD Vance can pardon him.  Trump can run for a third term not having completed his second. Realistically Trump's health will never make that. But it is the kind of BS legal corruption Rs use.
We all watch cop and  legal shows. We all know about the proper chain of custody or unusable evidence. 

What kind of chain has millions spent over months with thousands of editors?

The invalid kind.
Did Congress authorize force in Nigeria? 

I think we all know the answer to that. And yet the military followed those orders anyway.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-26
----------------------------------------

Holiday Eggnog Mocha

1. I cup hot Eggnog
2. I cup hot coffee
3. I cup amount of mocha mix/3 tablespoons of Hot Cocoa mix
4. whipped cream
5. nutmeg

Combine hot Eggnog with coffee and chocolate mix, stirred not shaken. Top with whipped cream and nutmeg.
...and genetic engineering ensure super intelligence and and physical capability. We have maybe a century or two before that race is lost.
Well Roger Zelzany in his 1969 Hugo Award winning book, "The Lord of LIght" pointed out that accelaractionsim as defined by entrusting the common person with the power of tech is a chief obstacle. We are running a guantlet where the rich don't yet have indefinite lifespans....
Humphrey Bogart is the only person I'm aware of to pull off the name Humphrey. Although Bogart works as well as a single name like Cher.
So this Christmas and New Year join the future.

Join an MGO today! I have all the solutions(tm)!

Irreni.social
Capitalism and religion are stifling us. Capitalism is suffocating us in immediate gratification. Religion is suffocating us being anti-science. 

It's a trap!

A great line and meme from sci-fi!
Humans have no container we can bury that lasts 50,000 years. Furthermore we have no proven tech to track that waste and will lose track of the nuclear waste-  thus leaving a hazard for future generations.

So he couldn't recommend nuclear energy.
Have you ever thought about walking a 50,000 year path?

Louie Lavoue did. He was a nuclear physicist. 

He gave a great state-of-the art safety analysis of the latest nuclear power plants being safe.

Then ended with one sentence. The shortest half-life of nuclear spent fuel is 50,000 years.
As Morpheus in The Matrix says, there is a difference between knowing the path and walking the path.

Walking a 400 year path has never been done.

Oof.
So first we just join MGOs and forgoe the experiments. Gradually over generations we wear down our privacy taboos and start running social experiments in earnest.

400 years.

Sigh
They way I see it is religion and capitalism both undermine our thirst for human connection. Thus we are disconnected today. 

We need to connect. Joining an MGO of fixed size 30 people as a new survival unit that is soveign like any nation is the spark I think. We need to learn to socialize.
Religion and literature are no science stupidity traps. Capitalism is immediate gratification, no long-term training trap.

We are truly pickled in potent vinegar.
Culture takes generations to change. Removing privacy taboos will take generations. By my estimate mesh society will take 400 years. 

A 400 year plan is not human society today. 

We are in a real pickle of capitalisms training us for immediate gratification killing us.
The future is society experimentation based on the very best science.

Getting people on board with that is our current dilemma. 

For starters, experiments require collecting data. Tyranny uses all data as power and ergo our current culture demanding privacy when in fact no privacy is needed.
The Game of  Thrones tells you with its title that  it is simulation. Seven Kingdoms sitting next to a simulated nuclear blast zone of the North.

Winter is coming is nuclear winter.
Intersting side note. George RR Martin of The Game of Thrones fame was a friend and neighbor of Zelazny, both residing Santa Fe, New Mexico.
Zelazny was aware that we cannot know or predict the outcome of many years of experiment. Instead he created simulation like with the Matrix as an experiment solution. The Pattern was the basis for many simulations simultaneously run.
The Matrix was simply a dystopian version of the Pattern. The Pattern was created by Roger Zelazny in the Amber series.

The amber being our current stupidity and arrogance trap. The pattern was AI software that iterated on social experiments. 

Sadly that was deeply buried in eleven books.
The Matrix was mocking you to your face, in your face. It was saying that stupid machines will understand they are stupid and need to experiment their way out. Whereas experimentation  is something humanity cannot do. Ergo the Mocking.
Sci-fi writers have suggested this. In fact you are probably familiar with one: the movie "The Matrix". 

Neo was like the Architects' seventh version of Neo as experimentation for removing its dependency on human consciousness for consciousness.
When I say I have all the solutions(tm) what I am saying is Mesh society is an experiment driven society. Trial and error sitting on all the latest science. We need to run the experiments while at the same time building out the science of social engineering. 

Mesh society is experiment society.
The key to unlocking the solutions for stupidity and arrogance is experimentation.

This is why sci-fi writers could never see a way forward. How can one predict that which is the result of millions of years of experiments? 

You can't. All you can say is that we must experiment.
Donald Trump, AI and Crypto are all predicted patterns of stupidity. 

Now what. 

The key to understanding how to achieve escape velocity from our current permanent gravity of arrogance and stupity is experimentation.
In the 1940s we saw the birth of A bombs and a response with the birth of sci-fi as a sermon movement. 

The big question sci-fi grapples with is how does humanity escape its current gravity of stupidity and hubris ruling us. 

The easiest prediction is we can't.  We will self-destruct.
I was fascinated with sci-fi because it introduced me to cognitive science and experimentation. Something completely lacking in religion and literature. Which is not surprising since religion and literature ignore science.
Religion and literature share a very common arrogance and stupidity: no science.

Joseph Campbell wanted to correct this and invented a new genre: science fiction.

Science fiction incorporates not only the science of new tech like AI and spaceships, but also the environment,  human mind, etc.
Yet the species has long poo-pooed these sermons, these warnings because of historical entrenched stupity and arrogance in the form of religion and literature. Religion and literature have all to human gate keepers promelgating timeless stupity and arrogance patterns.
Predicting dystopia and self-extinction with the timeless stupity and arrogance behavior mapped onto tech like with AI and Crypto ruining the environment and killing off the species is the thesis of Dune and so many other books.
The path tech is charting is as timeless as it is human. Tyranny and oppression based on getting high off of smelling our own farts thinking they are roses, i.e., the religion path.  

Society has long poo-pooed sci-fi as childish. Predicting dystopia and self-extinction...
The humanity suicide as a species has many paths. Nuclear war. Energy burnout like we are seeing with Crypto and AI. Sadly the future is all to assured and easy to predict if stupity and hubris chart our course. Humanity will simply self-destruct. Amuse itself to death.
AI tyranny and oppression has long been predicted.  Same with Donald Trump. Sci-fi has long predicted today accurately by simply projecting stupidity and arrogance onto tech.
My project since 1980 is Mesh society.  A replacement for Dead Democracy. 

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-12-25
----------------------------------------

TIL ". gg is the country code top-level domain for the Bailiwick of Guernsey." 

Who knew? Island nation of Bailiwick of Guernsey was a thing?

Turtle Wow twow.org -> turtlecraft.gg
Here's some holiday cheer! 

vimeo.com/895133284?fl...

This Greenland response of Maine going to Canada is funny.

Canada should send an Envoy to Maine explaining what a s**thole country the USA is and how much better life is in Canada. Poll Mainers on the question. Start a ballot measure. 

Hilarious!
My Greenland response is Maine should become part of Canada and Europe should invade the US and give Canada Maine if the US in any way attacks Greenland. I want free healthcare.

Cheers!
Ho! Ho! Ho! We got six inches of snow overnight in Hermon, Maine and it is still going. 

Spose to stop after lunch. Debating on letting it sit a couple of days and clearing Saturday. Highs are well below freezing and no melting to turn to ice.
I am so lucky to live in a time where books existed that allowed me opportunity in tender childhood to trash Western ways and adopt Eastern ways.

Especially being neurodivrtgent. There are no one size fits all. Just acceptance as however different, however broken as you are.

Peace out!
Joy to the world!

Love everyone that means treat them well despite how you may feel about them. 

Harness your energy. Pull on both ends of transformation and harmony as much as you can. The middle then is your purpose made clear, firm, and centered.

Purpose is from all life living together.
Trump disrespects life. Respecting life means eliminating those actions. Tolerance of intolerance is madness.

Contain the disrespect actions with minimal force is the Eastern way. 

Ignoring disrespect is not.
Western ways are people have to earn your respect. Eastern ways are respect is freely given to all life, unfettered from judgment. 

Judgment is the Wetern way that kills because it requires an impossiblity: keeping score. 

Such a waste of emotion. Shiver.
Joy to the world means agape love. I love everyone. This love kind means treat everyone well despite how you feel about them. 

That is what Jesus taught. Sadly, weighted down and nullified by thoughts of hell. Western ways.
Western ways like these holidays are not balanced. They set a uniform expectation where life is chaos. 

We should stop these unhealthy practices.

Joy to the world!

UBU:  Not whatever the uniformity is. 

Neurodivergent means being you. I am.

Joy to the world!
Eastern ways from childhood days centered my mind, cleared my thinking and motioned my emotions. 

Joy to the world. Practice makes perfect is sad. Practice with purpose is understanding. We cannot simply read. We are motion emtion.
We understand the limits of our understanding. 

"Know thyself" is hollow. It is missing "practice thyself". 

We must always be in motion to be at rest. Like a shark sleeping. A cormorant gliding. 

Life is never complete. Yet we complete what we set out to do. Illusion of this order is essential.
Peace is not harmony. Peace is not relaxed. Peace is not caring.

Peace is understanding.

Peace is the mid-point of a rope in tug-of-war. 

Life is ensuring the tug between transformation and harmony  is always as strong as you can endure.
Learn how to be. Learn how to be not.

Eastern ways are so much healthier than Western. A balance of harmony and transformation. Where Western ways forgoe any semblance of harmony of mind.

Profit as an ends and Trump are just two reflections of lacking harmony balance. 

Joy to the world.
Eastern ways are centered, firm, and clear.

To define is to lose. To define is necessary. All communication is broken yet also needed.

We are encased in language amber and yet able to move.

My writing is firm. Clear. Centered.

Not emotionless, emotionful.
As a neurodivergent child I went on a quest, a search, a journey to find my emotions motions. And I did! In Buddhism and Daoism. Practice not prayer. Action not anger. Acceptance not dwelling. Peace not pettiness. Love not hate.

Joy to the world. And to you.

Joy^you.

Cheers!
Neurdivergent difference nullified Christianity. I practice nothing from it. Forgiveness is not acceptance. It is guilt. Daoism and Buddism have exercises like meditation and visualization that I practice daily. If emotions are wedged, unable to move, exercise moves them.
Joy to the world! Joy^world!

My wish for everyone is to abandon Western ways and adopt Buddhism and Daoism. 

How to emotionally invest in only what you control.

The Serenity Prayer is a reflection.

Trump doesn't emotionally bother me. 

Joy to the world! Don't be lost.
The Epstein files remind me of a very common legal disclaimer used in the 70s and 80s:

Un-retouched photograph

They already released a public  photo with Diana Summers kids redacted.

Files have been added, deleted and edited. Nothing can be trusted. Kabuki theater.
This is how I think about the cop show "Lucifer". Sci-fi western. Takes place in LA and has Tricia Helfer. So say we all!
I think I found my new hair color...

cat white. :)
This is one of those paintings that looks good with any filter.
To me, her art is warm and kind. It says, 
"Joy to the world, 
All the boys and girls now.
Joy to the fishes in the deep blue sea,
Joy to you and me."

Except, you know, cats not fishes, ha!
This was a challenge. No way to get more detail on the table without losing detail in the window.
Love her art. 

@trahias.bsky.social posts many of her paintings if you are not following.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-24
----------------------------------------


I should be clear, academics are little help either as they have no agreement on the definition for words like fascism. When speaking to the general public it is best to stick to the basics. 

fascism, noun: 1. an alliance of state, corporate and religious powers.
I wish people were not so ignorant. 

99% of the population cannot define socialism or communism accurately. In addition if the definitions are included in the poll people ignore them and trust their experience. 

Polls are total nonsense based on ignorance not reality.
Irreni is a mesh of fixed size 30 people nodes. The most common meshes will be sizes 2-3, neighbors. 

Mesh nodes have all the sovereignty of nations today

Join an MGO! 

irreni.social
Mesh society is designed to balance things. One of them is quality of life with survival. Another is control of life by the individual with control by society. 

Mesh is the one gov to do this. Democracy is as dead as a door nail. Mass ignorance -> dystopia. 

Join an MGO today! 

irreni.social
Just a reminder that sci-fi writers since WWII have long pointed out in books like Dune that the average IQ becomes less useful everyday in high tech societies.

1. Iron-fisted authoritarianism to ignore the masses.
2. Dystopian hellscape created by the masses.

Neither of which is appealing.
If we want to reset our Democracy then:

1. Remove the pardon power.
2. Limit the presidency to commander in chief only. All financial operations are assigned to Congress.
3. All military operations must be created by Congress before the President can act.
4. Repeal 2nd amendment and ban nukes.
The President shouldn't have this power. Nor the power to determine if contraceptives are included in African aid spending.

Since FDR, Congress has been legislating its financial duties away, assigning them to the P. 

We are not a Democracy.
I will say this about Bill. If Biden gave him 4 years to read through all the Epstein files to delete his, then I can honestly say Clinton could have easily read them all.
Bill Clinton, cough, I'm sorry but if you believe files weren't deleted, Bill Clinton, cough, and we still have ALL of them, Bill Clinton, cough, and then only now and not 10 yeaes ago are people willing to say "release them" , Bill Clinton, cough, well I have a bridge in Florida...
"Payments for Russian troops fighting in Ukraine were suspended due to a lack of budget funds, it has been reported. "
Nailed it! Wha? Too soon? Ho! Ho! Ho!
Just so we are all on the same page, the Democrats are not going to repeal the tax cuts. 

The Medicaid cuts will be repealed, the Ds celebrated with much fanfare,  and the rich have done it again! 

Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me every single day and there is no shame left.
This is mathematician Ada Lovelace. 

What is the fashion in her hair? When did the mathematicians lose all sense of fashion? We are much worse off. Bring back math fashion!  Harumph!
Bari Weiss is just a sock puppet for a billionaire. A $200 million sock puppet. I would have unsuccessfully withheld that 60 minutes video for $199,999,999.
So I buy a year subscription to Canadian streaming Acorn and the Canucks leak the CECOT video.

I'm busy plotting my next Canadian purchase with my best Muttley laugh.
Nancy Pelosi and Barak Obama failed to properly hold Republicans accountable for Iraq War. That pass gave us Donald Trump.
The Ds approval rating is 18%. I get who the show the -60% as better click bait but we don't need it. It is all just a game to these people.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-23
----------------------------------------

No Choke Peanut Butter Bagels

Always put a healthy amount of margarine between the bread and peanut butter. No choking allowed.

1. Toasted Bagel
3. Margarine
5. Peanut Butter
9. Everything Seed Topping

Spread margarine and peanut butter  on bagel in that order. Sprinkle topping.
Mmmm, BTW I wrote this in my teens. I've refined it over the years. What hasn't refined is how Christians demonize mental health. In the words of David Byrne who also struggles: same as it ever was. 

In the words of a struggler deceased Sinnead O'Connor, tear up Pope pictures. So say we all.
gullible, noun: 1. Believing Biden and Democrats didn't make a copy of the 300GB of Epstein files during the four years, four years, Biden was in office. 2. suckers. 3. see also gaslighting.
Cool lighting.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-22
----------------------------------------

"That's not a knife. This is a knife."
Christmas Sermon

It wouldn't be me.

I'm 63. Alt text see. 

I'm fine, this is just me being against Christianity. Cheers!
We have terrible healthcare. Life expectancy is going down. 

But yeah, voting Ds into office in 2026 will make things right as rain. Here, have a cookie. 

Ds won't reverse the ICE occupation. They need those voters. That's what they are going to tell you. Can't we all just get along with ICE?
The US military is literally giving police departments weapons of war. War.
Just a reminder that I have all the solutions(tm).

No nations, no hierarchy, no capitalism, no rule of rich pretending to be law.

Irreni.social
We are an occupied Nation. We have 900,000 cops on the streets. The military has 2.5 million. ICE will add 100,000 more, making 1 million. 

Police kill thousands every year yet we still have the largest percentage of prisoners by far.

100,000 overdose deaths per year. 

Freedom!
Then of course you have qualified immunity of cops and thieving. Cops can steal whatever they want as "Asset Forfeiture". Billions.

Seriously, what part of Democracy do people think is working? Asset Forfeiture is more theft every year than all shoplifting combined.
Around 2011 a 100lb, 18yo girl walked into a Sacremento, CA police station, pulled out a kitchen butter knife and was instantly shot dead.

There's your due process.
Just take the 1989 "fear of life" unfalsifiable non-standard standard.

Cops kill 1,000 people a year since 1989 without due process. Executions.

Yet we pretend ICE did away with due process.

Suicide by cop is 100% a sure thing.
You have the Savings and Loan 1989 financial collapse. Dot com bust in 2000.

A freaking 20 year war on brown people that literally accomplished nothing. 

Obama creating trillions of dollars with 0% interest and "quantitative easing". 

Just a few highlights.
I have understood this country to be completely failed since 1980. You know the Moral Majority and Raygun. What Raygun did to the Gay community. Biden and Clinton's overt despicable racism in the 1992 crime bill.

1989 "fear of life" SCOTUS unlimited license to kill.
I think the cognitive dissonance with the left is they refuse to admit the truth that the Ds are every bit as much the enemy as the Rs. 

To admit this means nowhere to run. The country is completely failed. 

They can't do it.
The Democrats have the full 300G of the Epstein files. You know, from the four years Biden was in office. 

And if they don't, that's  triple worse.

You are being played. The Ds have zero respect for Americans.

No denial. Know your enemy.
I mean I truly do not understand even a smidgen of emotional investment in the Epstein politics. The Rs are not going to impeach him. Nor convict in the Senate. 

What happened was as easy to predict as sunrise.

Wake up. The Ds didn't  release the E files.

No denial. Know your enemy.
I'm the only one posting on Bluesky solutions for replacing Democracy.

I also am the only one pointing out Biden should have thrown Trump in prison, T is never going to arrest himself nor the Rs impeach.

Irreni is super complicated. The Biden logic is simple.

Well, at least the art is banging.
Meanwhile Donald Trump is President. We are clearly sending our worst people to do social engineering. 

We need to fix society to bring social engineering on par with technical.

That society is Irreni World Scale.

Irreni.social

I have no idea why Joe Biden got a pass.

Biden could have released the Epstein files and arrested a bunch of billionaires with Donald Trump. Trump wouldn't have even been able to run for office.

A disinterested outsider would conclude that Ds wanted T for President.

----------------------------------------
2025-12-21
----------------------------------------

Just a reminder that Joe Biden sat on all this same Epstein data. 

And did nothing.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Chai Tea, Non-dairy

1. 1/5 cup Almond Creamer
2. 1/4 cup Chai Tea concentrate
3. 3/4 cup Oat Milk
4. Fill to 2 cups with water. 

Heat 3:30 in the microwave on high.

I, uhh, had adult onset lactose intolerance due to a round of anit-biotics. I added dairy over three years. Close to normal.
You gotta ask yourself if you were married to Bill Clinton and knew all this about him would you stick with him? What's that say about Hillary and the Democratic Party? 

Seriously.
Wake up!
No denial. Know your enemy.
"Errors are great cover for malfeasance." 
-The Cynics Rule, Gaslighting 101
"I said pearl clutching!"
"Okay, okay okay, we'll add more strands."
No need to drive me crazy, I will walk from here.
TIL that the Democratic party has an 18% approval rating. Trump is at 36%, double the Ds. 

How sh*try do you have to be to lose twice to T and have half his low approval rating. 

youtu.be/cdcx0MhmqxU?...
You don't have to be a cynic not to fall for Lucy pulling the football yet again. 

The only line T might cross were Republicans will hesitate is if he nukes CA. Even then I give it 50/50.
We are learning yet again who watches the watchers. A government is simply a group of people notably ungoverned. Cops don't arrest cops. There is no justice system because the government is never held accountable. Just tax payers paying fines.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-20
----------------------------------------

I paid $100 for a year subscription for Acorn streaming. I support our friends to the North.  I dumped Peacock and Netflix. Just Acorn. 

No ads.
Just a reminder that Trump has been in violation of the Emoluments Clause every single day in office on this day the Epstein Files are supposed to be released.

The Ds never impeach over bribery. He could have been removed day one in 2016.
Holiday Coffee

1. 1 cup hot eggnog
2. 1 cup hot coffee
3. whipped cream
4. nutmeg

Combine eggnog and coffee, stirred not shaken, and top with whipped cream and nutmeg.

I find eggnog to think but enjoy the taste. This cuts the thickness in 1/2 with bonus caffeine.
The technology available to the common people in 1776 when this country was founded was such that they'd burn down their house as a way to easily recover all the nails and metal in the house when they moved.

We live in very different times and need very different society design.
Mesh society is the opposite of anarchy and Libertarian.

It requires daily social duties where Democracy just requires the least effort ever: voting. 

Mesh society is a sh*t ton more work and responsibilty. It is the only way to keep the exploitation of the smallest of efforts, voting, at bay.
Imagine, I took the lyrics to John Lennon's song "Imagine" and created that society design. 

Free coupled with desired responsibility of dependency at last.

Cheers!
Reduce dependency on mass society and enjoy personal control. 

That is the way of mesh society life. We choose the balance of mass social dependency.

No:
Nations 
Hierarchy
Bureaucracy
Legal system

Because all the above are rich people privilege.
There is no mass media if there is no mass to target. Mesh society is primarily focused on the MGO life and a few MGO neighbors. This focus undermines the mass attention of today, freeing us from mass control.

So join an MGO!

Irreni.social
Mesh society then has all survival nodes of fixed size 30 people  only. We all go live in the woods.
The trick is 30 people. A fixed size 30 affords commercial products of mass production to target a fixed size 30 community. Much as we have 1, 2, and 3 bedroom housing. 

This is the container ship design. All containers being the same size has huge advantages.
How to think about mesh society.

Imagine you are fed up with all this <<waves hands around furiously>> nonsense and decide to go live in the woods or mountains alone. 

Well, that is not realistic. 

What is realistic is going with 30 people and then popping in on society from time to time.
How? How to fight tech in general?

Easy, just remember I have all the solutions(tm).

Join an MGO that focuses attention on the 30 people in the MGO away from the Internet.

Irreni.social
We think our fights are just elections, tech bros, and AI.

Our fights are with tech in general and tech embedded in all aspects of life that enabled someone like Trump to get billions in free advertising by being click bait. No click bait, no Trump.

Time to quit biting click bait. That's on you.
If we want to take back control of our politics we have to first take away tech control of our attention.

That is something each of us can do.
Words that have come into our lexicon demonstrate how much control we give up for GUI.

Echo chamber
Algorithm 
Cookies
SEO
Audience Capture
Your easy to use, gee whiz looking web browser is your enemy.  An enemy me thinks most people are unaware is manipulating them. 

Ads for starters. Trackers, etc. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
Emacs has had regex built in since the 1990s and is my goto feature for editing. I can't imagine life without it - like with using Notepad that doesn't have regex.
One of the oldest, most used languages of computers is regex, regular expressions. 

They are the Swiss army knife of text manipulation. Yet 99.999% of the public doesn't use regex because it takes learning and practice. 

For shame.
Point and click GUIs infantilize your brain. They are an addiction that will lead to rejecting more sophisticated tools for dumbed downed convenient ones.

That is not an addiction I embrace. 

Forever Emacs.
Point and click GUI is being handheld along a path you have blinders on. You are unable to see the entire opportunity landscape.

This is why I ignore IDEs when writing code. There are command line tools for everything with much greater range and features.
People need to learn how to speak computer directly. Command line. Speaking languages is something humans have done their entire goddamn existence, longer than using fire. 

Point and click graphical UI is a trap. 

The time it takes to learn to speak computer yields Control opportunity.
We've reached a UI tipping point described by Benjamin Franklin.

"Those who would give up essential Control, to purchase a little temporary Convenience, deserve neither Control nor Convenience."
The thing about Emacs is that at its core it is just a text editor when installed. It has a million modules that I don't use. You can turn it into a mail app, an IDE, a shell, or AI console. 

But unlike Notepad, all the modules are your choice after initial install. F Microsoft.

Forever Emacs.
Just a reminder that enough people voted for T because they thought rightly or wrongly life under B sucked. Insanity is doing the same K thing over and over again...
It is not about AI. It is about the tyranny and oppression of being forced to use it by our corporate overlords. 

It is about the tyranny and oppression of billionaires owning all the media to gaslight us that AI is needed.
Well met. We need to rebuild society. I have a plan for that, mesh society.

Join an MGO today! Replace not reform.

Irreni.social


Up Next:

Trump is putting is face along side Andrew Jackson on the twenty-dollar bill.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-19
----------------------------------------

Religion is a bane of our humanity, a pox on all of us, and the worst social construct imaginable.

youtu.be/go4PlrZfr20
We should have a right proper society. Irreni Society

irreni.social
Trump has no clue what he's doing. He lives in the moment. He's weak minded and easily exploited. Replacing him will be trivial. Perhaps even an AI animatron. Like Raygun and GW before him, T is just a facade the rich hide behind.
Mental health problems are  to be cured or managed, not exploited or demonized.

I don't begrudge someone like Trump having bad behavior. I begrudge a society that exploits the mental health cause and elevating it to leadership. I don't begrudge T, but the society that elevates.
Trump and Rob Reiner's murder both point to a world, a country and a species unwilling to grapple with mental health problems.

Religion is first and foremost to blame. Because admitting mental health problems causes bad behavior ruins their entire sin grift, exposes sin as a fraud.
Trump is addicted to public attention and we feed it for click bait. Shame on us for exploiting mental health problems for dollars.

For shame.
Education should be free and universal as well. 

UBEFHHI

Cheers!
Let the trillionaires have their electronic bits if we get to price fix what we need. And we also get UBFHHI.
The reason we need price fixing is Obama "printed" 50 trillion dollars. Injecting that much money into the the world economy has destabilized it. The rich control most of it.

Either we zero out that" 0% interest, quantitative easing" money or we price fix.
We should also start price fixing essential items. Capitalists showed during Covid that they will price gouge at the drop of a hat and never look back. 

UBFFHI and essential price fixing.

Capitalists need to be held responsible as they are unable to use self-control.
Universal Basic Income will get gamed.

To protect against capitalists jacking prices faster than the gov can raise income we need universal:

1. Food
2. Housing
3. Healthcare
4. Income

UBFHHI
The reason the ACA is broken is profit. It's the same with student loans and schools jacking prices. Capitalism is a gaming system rigged to enrich the gamers. Tax credits will be gamed to death as well.
The rich are trying to thread a needle. 

Maintain a financial legal system that accounts for their  digital wealth all the while destroying the rest of it.

The problem is the T admin and Rs are incompetent and stupid.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-18
----------------------------------------

Antifa is not an organization, it's a position. Venezuela is not an organization, it's a country.
The word atheism shouldn't exist. Lack of belief defines nothing. The set of things we don't believe in is infinite. Lack of belief in the Easter bunny tells you nothing about someone.
--Sam Harris, paraphrased

Don't forget nukes.
Someone should ask Trump to read verbatim in public his Reiner post. 

Guaranteed he can't read it.
There is some irony somewhere with the fact that Trump didn't write the Rob Reiner post because it's too long, no typos, no made up words, etc. But it is definitely him. He didn't write "The Art of the Deal", he as no art or deal.  There was no art or deal in the Reiner post. Full circle of fraud.
I think I just passed my 2nd year on Bluesky. This means I've been here longer than my total time on Twitter. And I only had 8 followers on Twitter. ha! So many bots purged. 

I don't have 400 followers. I honestly believe there's only about 10 or so because no engagement. 

Welcome!
Got a little writing done this week, just a tease:

"Our society was not designed for quality. It was designed for "leave us alone" freedom with the bare minimum of group mandated dependency."

Our shift from rugged individualism to refined dependency needs new society.
Almost everything people ascribe to sex is in fact cultural. Just like racism. This is why I have no problem writing female characters versus male. Just write a human character.
Take two bell curves superimposed with one slightly offset. The overlap would be around 98% where male and female have a mostly same range of capability. It would be only on the extreme ends one would see much difference.  

We have far more in common as humans than distinct based on sex.
As research for designing Irreni I have read a lot on human nature. 

It is almost universally true that the degree of variation within either male for female capabilities is always much larger within the sex than between the sexes.
Gender wars on Bluesky needs a reminder:

All males have the entire set of female genes in the X chromosome. 

The male Y chromosome only has 200 genes. 

In fact the Y chromosome was just recently sequenced because it is so repetitive. 
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chromos...
The reason you should join Irreni World Scale is that the US Government cannot and will not fix itself. We have to fix society. That's what Irreni does. Fix all of society.

irreni.social

Always affirming to see us neurodivergent represented.


So IRobot just went out of business. So there's that.

----------------------------------------
2025-12-17
----------------------------------------



None of the claims about the benefits of AI are proven. It's all BS. When it fails they want gov/tax payer bailout. If any success then they establish BS funding as a practice.
Autonomous  cars will be much safer when the roads are mostly autonomous cars. There's a tipping point where laws will tax humans such that only the rich will drive.
I'd bet all the money every politician has that the politicians will not pass a single law ensuring someone like T never happens again.
They should merge Star Trek and Star Wars Universes into General Hospital. GH is pretty much immortal.
Even in his first term he always had typos and short sentences. Mostly short posts.
Pretty soon you'll be able to take out pardon insurance. $1 million dollar minimum payment.

That's how crazy things are and no one in power is stopping it.

----------------------------------------
2025-12-16
----------------------------------------

Politicians reputation farming by mining tragedy is itself a tragedy.


----------------------------------------
2025-12-15
----------------------------------------

Habeas Corpus no longer exists in the US and is the keystone to the very foundation of the US Constitution. 

Yet people are still clinging to gun laws needing to be Constitutional. 

No. Ban the sale of all guns. We already have 500 million in circulation.
I just wanted to thank @safety.bsky.app and @support.bsky.team  and @bsky.app . I prune babe bots and other bots as followers and for the last two months there haven't been any that I recall.

Well met!
Love and Evangelical are antonyms.
Two things you will never hear an Evangelical use in public debate:

1. Love thy neighbor
2. Turn the other cheek

It's ten-eyes-for-an-eye all the way down.
Religion, noun: 1. A public shield against all criticism that enables evil and horror that social norms and morals would otherwise prohibit.

The Anti-Theist Dictionary.
I can only imagine what is going on at the other site right now. I fear recruiting. Call everyone who opposes genocide an anti-semite and your wishes just may come true. That would be a tragedy.
I am an anti-theist that practices what Hey! Zeus! taught: love thy neighbor. I love everyone. This love is expressed as "treat everyone well despite how you feel about them". This is what "Peace on Earth" means to me. It always saddens me that this is the exact opposite of being a  Christian.
Reap what you sow.
You know someone once said thousands of years ago, "violence begets violence"as "live by the sword,  die by the sword". Funny how the people who are taught that completely ignore it. 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Violenc...

----------------------------------------
2025-12-14
----------------------------------------

From my upcoming book

Chai Tea Eggnog
Just using 1 cup of Chai Tea was too sweet for me, so I cut it in half.
1. 1 cup eggnog
2. 1/2 cup water
3. 1/2 cup Chai Tea concentrate
4. whipped cream
5. nutmeg
There is no currency/money in Irreni. No wealth to horde. There is only direct trade by 100% computer inventory. 

MGOs don't own land. All resource allocation is based on projects that MGOs vote upon. 

In fact, sinking roots is not a thing. One can expect an MGO to move around every few years.
There are no nations in Irreni. No States, no Provinces, no government at all because there is no hierarchy. Hierarchy doesn't scale.

Irreni is a radical change because radical change is needed. The radical change already imposed on humans by technology needs a radically new social system.
Projects scale where nations cannot. Nations implement small and large projects using large scale force. 

Meshes implement small projects as small meshes. Large projects as large meshes. All running in parallel.

You can think of this as "right-sized governing".
Projects replace the legal system. There is no rule of law. Punishment is solely at the discretion of each MGO. 

MGOs join projects. The most common will be of local size 2-3  MGOs. Larger MGO meshes results in fewer of that size of mesh. Everyone in a single mesh/project will be rare.
There is no hierarchy in mesh society. This means scale is 100% horizontal, no vertical. No vertical scale is a design that scales to any size needed. It also includes overlapping meshes. An MGO can belong to as many meshes as needed. 

The mesh network is projects.
JFYI, Irreni World Scale is designed to the Solar System, Milky Way, and Universe scales. 

This is because it is a mesh design. Meaning that the sovereign governments are the smallest, size 30, called MGOs. These MGOs can combine in any combination, no physical land boundaries, etc.
Democracy failure has nothing to do with left and right, Democrat or Republican. 

It has everything to do with the US Constitution doesn't scale. 

This means playing magical chairs with elections won't solve anything. 

We need to replace the entire design with one that scales.

irreni.social
The upshot is that a design for one scale, or order of magnitude, won't work for larger orders. 

The US economy and world power went "viral" after WWII. The order of magnitudes more wealth and power the that followed WII simply overran the design of the Constitution's checks and balances.
Why did Democracy in the US come to an end? 

Success becomes failure. This is an Internet adage from Silicon Valley denoting that when something goes viral, ie successful, then the order of magnitudes larger load that results from going viral causes the existing system to collapse.
Realize that any software can be hardware. Today's TPUs are AI software.

We could take 100% of the Rust software security features and make them hardware.  Yet we are not pursuing Rust security as an RPU. We are pursuing AI complexity that increases security risks as TPU.

The tech bros are evil.
If the rich can embed AI into every aspect of society then they control society because they control the complexity. That is the end game.
Complexity is a currency that only the rich own.
Here is something sci-fi predicted 50 years ago based on our human nature of being arrogant.

Complexity as obscurity will hide deliberate malfeasance.  Up to and including the species deliberately ending itself. 

Complexity is that severe of a security threat because arrogance is that prevalent.
You will know when AI is ready for software when it generates machine code first. Then can derive any assembly. Followed by any human readable language of choice. 

Today AI is just what we call a script kiddy.
We are taught, hopefully, the reasons and benefits to doing design both ss bottom up and top down. Security today is overly top down, software. Hardware bottom-up security was abandoned in the 1980s. If we had continued hardware security then C would be secure. And a small language still viable.
If CPUs had hardware garbage collection the same as virtual memory then all languages would be protected. Software only security has left us a cornucopia security landscape based on the whims of language selection. 

Rust or C.
Then, just as security in hardware was taking off the industry abandoned it in favor of software. For example, garbage collection. Removing data no longer referenced and unreachable. Hardware garbage collection never saw the virtual memory light of day. 

It's too bad.
During the 1980s there existed a split in security design. 

1. Fix it in hardware
2. Fix it in software

Virtual memory being one such advancement in security in hardware in the 80s.
This disease of more is exemplified by the C language debate. The 187 page C book starts with, "C is a small language and not served well by a big book."

It's probably the single best line ever written in a programming book.
Over the years I've become more disillusioned with my profession. Not because I think any one implementation is my favorite. No every single system, language and code base suffers the same disease: more.

More is better and needed.
AI should never, ever only provide one answer unless a proven confidence is 100%, a tautology. One answer implies to the lay person the only answer means 100% correctness.
The problem with AI today is that the confidence is unknown. The correctness of a solution is assumed to be 100%.

If I were running the world then the first regulation to be passed would be that unknown confidence is prohibited. Further ranked answers of diminishing confidence must always be given.
Fuzzy Logic should be required for anyone in AI. It is the math of error bounds and the Fuzzy spaces they create. At some point confidence quickly collapses to 0.
AI code is the ultimate security vulnerability. In science, we are taught that error bounds compound. AI is based on probabilities from previous code written.
Security vernability scales with complexity.  The React JavaScript drama is a reflection of modern code only ever getting larger, not smaller. That enough is never enough. Code perfection is an infinite size, "holy grail" quest.


Trump is not back. No one in the past is as rude, crude, and socially unacceptable as Trump. No admin as incompetent and evil such that the incompetence and evil  blend seamlessly.  Trump is not America.

At least Dick Cheney was competent.
@foreverlouiseb1.bsky.social
----------------------------------------
2025-12-13
----------------------------------------

Mmmm, okay use of Kabuki theater to designate an elaborate show kind of lip service may not be all that common today.

Here's the Urban dictionary link.

www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?t...
Interesting reporting.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=l8v6...
"Get off of my cloud."
"Dude, this is a fence."
www.bangordailynews.com/2025/12/12/p...
"The commission last month ultimately rejected the proposal that would have raised bills by about $35 per month for customers of Central Maine Power,"

Ye ole we were really going to screw feint to get us to accept getting screwed. Here's looking through your reporting @bangordailynews.bsky.social
When I was in junior high, the Band teacher always had  two posters of his writing in large letters. Our school had hundreds and the room seated 50.

On Leonard Skinner's left:

"The first time is a mistake, the second time an excuse."

Right: 

"We don't want excuses. We want results."
All these Ds performing in front of the camera and getting millions of views on social media are just putting lipstick on a pig.

Remember Cory Booker's filibuster? Lots of Bluesky fawning. Then he went right back to being an APAC ratfink.

Liberals need to quit falling for Kabuki theater.
If all the Democrats in the House can muster is self-righteous indignation in hearings so as to self-promote then I'm not impressed.

Quit campaigning.
 
Do something.

Just for comparison, there are 2 million people in Gaza. Years of murder and bombing genocide. How many have self deported? 

It took over a decade for 6 million Syrians to flee.

Yet DHS "self deported" 2 million in a few months under far less life threatening conditions.
Right.
One lie Congress did not push back on from Kristi Noem is the claim that two million self deported. She first made this claim in May.

www.dhs.gov/news/2025/12...
----------------------------------------
2025-12-12
----------------------------------------

I responded to a YouTube video on Abundance and I was finally able to put into words the original sin of Abundance.

Abundance frames our political problems as left versus right. 

That's a false dichotomy foisted on us by propaganda of the rich.

Corruption by the rich is it. Eat the Rich or die.
These days it is just known reality versus propaganda and disinformation psy-ops.

We need to ban the Republican party the same as the Communist party. The Rs are way worse.


How would one provide five years of social media data? My understanding on Bluesky is that no API exists to download your data. The only way to get at it is to transfer your account to a different private server. I don't see the five years of social media data to travel to the US being doable.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-11
----------------------------------------

Thanks @janetmillsforme.bsky.social
Sneaky, notice $10/month seems less than 10% because the average is 100.

"The Maine Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) has announced that Standard Offer electricity supply rates will increase by approximately $11–$12 per month for the average CMP customer starting on January 1, 2026."

----------------------------------------
2025-12-10
----------------------------------------

Those dark eyebrows creep me out. :)
head bored entertainment
Can't be Lord of Lords, King of Kings without there being other Lords and Kings around.
Ignore the Feds.
The Good Stuff

www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkdT...



I hate to be a stick in the mud but we are long past Medicare for all. The billionaires will just fix prices and rig the system. The same is true for UBI. First order of business for any change of large economic magnitude has to start with getting rid of billionaire corruption.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-09
----------------------------------------

If one judges whether one lives under Monarchy by this one dimension of being ruled by crazy clowns and unserious people then we live in Monarchy and not Democracy. Democracy is dead.
If one reads about the benefits of Democracy over Monarchy one of the compelling arguments was Monarchs were crazy clowns and unserious people running the world. Thomas Paine's, "The Rights of Man", has many such examples and is freely available via the Gutenberg Project.
Who hasn't the T admin declared war on:

1. Greenland
2. Panama
3. Canada
4. Mexico
5. EU
6. Venezuela
7. ...

Answer: Except despots like Russia, North Korea, etc.
For me at the heart of a great new movie is a solid respect and  grasp of mass appeal yet thrilling us with fresh and new appeal. Sinners did that for me.

----------------------------------------
2025-12-08
----------------------------------------

Conservative headline review of  bombing boats off Venezuela's coast. 

1. The US nuked Japan - legal
2. Obama' drone strikes killed Americans

However, 
1. Laws have changed since WWII
2. Obama sadly was using the Iraq War continuing resolution 
3. Trump has no Congressional authorization

----------------------------------------
2025-12-07
----------------------------------------

3
Why create GPUs and TPUs? 

Monopoly. If you can get people to buy your hardware they have to write software to your hardware spec. That's the monopoly hook. OpenAI wants to become NVidia. 

NVidia took decades to corner its market.
For all of you who aren't in the industry, we've long had the ability to take any software and it burn into silicon like a CPU. The obvious downside is you can't fix bugs and upgrade. It is not technically  impressive at all to burn software into a TPU, GPU, etc. It is just a business decision.
This is a really weird flex.
1. OpenAI chips will be for OpenAI so this entire spiel is weird.
2. AI tourist is flame war
3. TL;DR trust us bro, we're smarter than any critic
4. Baffling BS, seriously, what a gish-gallup

When Christopher Hitchens was asked if Islam was worse than Christianity and his response was historical: they all take turn at bat. Christianity is at bat in this moment.
Great puzzle picture.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-06
----------------------------------------

Okay, what's up with that arm pose of the standing actor. The reverse cane?
There exists a detestable idea on the right of calling any non-white Christians "savages". The arrogant premise being Christianity is responsible for the rise of civilized society, especially Western Civilization. 

Christopher Hitchens disproved this. 

youtu.be/cRsaxXrjk3w
These 8,000 innovations in biology for gut science is just a very tiny slice of tech innovations ongoing. And yet, with social engineering we have no innovations. 

Irreni World Scale changes that. Irreni is not government, it is a lab for social innovations to match the rate of tech.

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-12-05
----------------------------------------

It is also worth pointing out that 99% of felony convictions result from plea deals not trials. But hey, let's pretend they would've had a trial.
Over a thousand people are killed every year by cops. People who haven't been tried or convicted. 

There is no  moral consistency in the good ole USA.
At some point, the brainless dissonance on the right is going to collide in real time. Their push to remove all immigrants will clash with their march to normalize slavery and make brown people slaves.
Our legal system is dead. Trials take years and decades. I recently posted a public-broadcast school prayer, 1st Amendment lawsuit took 10 tears to litigate. 

Trump can drag out any lawsuit to release the E files a decade.
Conservative news headline review

Trump admin declares they have 100% irrefutable evidence that the sunk boats had only narco terrorists on board. 

Right-wing media believes it.


In the book "Snow Crash" our future is predicted as we live in storage units. Sadly that's not cynical enough.

Soon, our private prison industrial complex will start renting. Prisoners get 3 meals and a roof. No one starves to death in prison. And no work required. Rentals get wifi.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-04
----------------------------------------

New Democracy is designed for a society that can successfully defend against asteroids, pandemics, global warming and all other threats to human survival because its foundation is perpetual war. Utopia does not.
War is the best foundation for designing society and not Utopia. This is because a war society is prepared and equipped for the most hostile of conditions thus ensuring our survival. Utopia assumes survival is a solvable problem where eventually only quality of life problems remain.
Now it might seem melodramatic to assign agency to everything when framing survival as perpetual war. However, everything can be used as a weapon of war. COVID has been framed a bio weapon. Redirecting asteroids is a sci-fi trope. The null assumption of war is every threat has human origins.
I open the book talking about war because fundamentally New Democracy is about survival. Survival requires perpetual attention to war: enemies that kill us and allies that help us. Our micobiome helps us, COVID kills us.
Further the law of unintended consequences applies. War includes allies. Humans need other life including squirrels. A wall or a road can cut squirrels off from each other and their nuts. When we think about war with New Democracy we think of allies as well as enemies.
War is adapting to the environment. The benefit of framing adaptation as war is that defenses such as walls defend against multiple threats like animal threats, weather threats, etc. When thinking of defending against a specific threat one should always consider threats in general to optimize.
New Democracy frames reality such that we are at war with anything threatening our survival.  Life gets complicated because lack quality of life threatens our survival too so there is limit to focusing merely on survival. Give me liberty or give me death. Humans cannot live by bread alone.
Started a book.

War

The first chapter is about war because historically when people think about manifestos for improving society then they think Utopia. Indeed, in 2024 a book titled "Abundance" came out as a manifesto promoting Utopia. This book is not about Utopia, but war.
Worth a watch.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=QAzI...
Reading reviews on the series "Robin Hood". People were complaining about gross historical inaccuracies. However, we live in the age of video games. World building for video games is about gross boundaries. Will they make a video game? Who knows.
----------------------------------------
2025-12-03
----------------------------------------

"I can't believe we ran out of pizza."
----------------------------------------
2025-12-02
----------------------------------------

One button adjust.
Mmmm
m.youtube.com/watch?v=9GYN...
In a time of dog whitles like Abundance as a Democrat, capitalist, deregulation dog whistle means everything is viewed as a dog whistle for capitalists. No exceptions.
Republicans have many tricks they can play with Congressional hearings. 

The most important one is to grant immunity in exchange for testimony. This is a Congressional pardon. 

The traitor Ollie North got pardoned this way during the Iran-Contra affair of the 80s.
But it is far worse. The resolution to use force for Iraq was used in eight different countries, including Libya.. I've always wondered if that resolution would ever be extended to Latin America. They meaning of the law has been stretched so thin over the last 20 years they definitely have a case.
This goes back to 9/11.

No country declared war on us. 9/11 was crime done by criminals. Our response was to declare war on two different countries and eventually three. Al Gore was correct. The response to 9/11 should have been as a crime. All this precedence of war for crimes has been set.

Just a reminder: I have all the solutions(tm).

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
Finally don't be surprised if you are asked to join an gang, for your protection. It's coming and take it seriously using that thought experiment thinking.
Here's a thought experiment.

Place a wager:
1. Democracy is restored
2. Everyone joins a gang

I lived 2 already. Examine your thinking in this. Suss out the reasons for both. These reasons are the objective. Track them ongoing.
Right now the billionaires are sending a message terrorizing the democracy believers: he who has the gold makes the rules. Soon things will settle down to straight up gangster power. A power as old as civilization itself.
Gangs working with ICE will form. Running drugs, prostitutes, and oh yeah, trafficking. They need their illegals to make top money. This is only the first year. The same thing happened in the slave trade where Africans served up Africans. Much more efficient then going native and pulling them out.
Gangster life was my childhood. Trump is a patsy. The first guy to get arrested. The canary in the coal mine pushing boundaries until something breaks. 

My Dad's  advice for ICE would be to pay them off. Hand them a hundred - more next time. 

Facts of life. Bribe the police. String them out.
The Reihle family owned Lafayette so long they had permanent signs, "Mayor Reihle welcomes you to Lafayette". 

Machine politics dominated in D cities.  My Dad did vote. Pulled a green lever to vote party ticket. He showed me and told me the powers know how everyone votes so always vote straight D.
I bring this up because people on here thinking "democracy" works, has ever worked, will ever work is privilege. My Dad would know better what's going on: power. Gangs. Billionaires bribing in broad daylight. Trump criming with impunity. I grew up in that. The Reihle family owned Lafayette so long
My Dad tore the ear off of someone in a bar fight. Brass knuckles in Indiana were illegal, even in the 60s and 70s. His brass knuckles were pawnshop, high school class rings worn on every finger.
My grandfather was a made man. My Dad was too untrustworthy. After I started working at 16, he opened his trunk on the street, in broad daylight, and we stood there as he explained goods and prices for crap he wanted to sell his son. Never arrested.
His politics was his lived experience. He got paid a crap, unlivable wage as a gas station mechanic. His real money came from being a small time fence. Yet, his entire life he was never arrested. He played politics as a thug should. Democracy was nothing.
As a power believer my Dad taught us all cops are gangsters and murderers. Told us stories of cop murder in Indiana. His "voting" was to buy off cops. He joined every cop charity and plastered their stickers all over his cars.
I grew up in desperate conditions. Poor doesn't own a home, even a sh***y one. Dad was a gangster and Mom married one. It wasn't democracy they lived, just power.
As an anti-theist, it is common to hear the expression, "you can't reason someone out of a position they weren't reasoned into" or "like ministering medicine to the dead," as Paine said. 

I never much hear this with anti-Trumpists, especially when it comes to voting.
Every so often I see posts on here being flabbergasted that people voted for Trump. That's coming from a perch of privilege that democracy works or ever worked. My parents didn't believe in democracy and raised us that way. Lived oppression trumps ideas. It is dog eat dog.
Democracy was never seen by natives and blacks as functioning. Over time, an ever larger percentage of Americans became indifferent to the American project and are strictly transitional. These people don't vote or identify with democracy.
Byzantine barriers protect the large companies. The financial legislation after the 2000 dot com bust and Enron collapse was designed to protect large banks with mountains of regulations. Barrier for small banks.
Hat is sublime. Adds to the overall playfulness smile.
Back in the 90s my text books ran me $400 / quarter. You probably have to take out a mortgage these days.

One of my go-to tactics in a meeting is to say, "I disagree." It just hangs there a couple of seconds making the room silent while people figure out what to do with that. Drama. :)

OpenAI will need to use ads in ChatGPT to turn a profit. And just like with Google search, keyword buying will completely obliterate result meaning. Google search is the worst.
Ann Richards and Molly Ivins were must have Texan opinions during the Bush era.

----------------------------------------
2025-12-01
----------------------------------------

The President is a dictator until he is removed from office. At least according to the Supreme Court. He can't be arrested. People have to ignore him, the so called deep state. In a sane world he would have been removed long ago. Unitary Executive.
Too big to fail, established by Obama, is now a business strategy. This gov bailout push defines Crypto and AI. More to come until the gov does its job and lets banks fail.
Just a reminder Obama ushered in "too big to fail". 

AI  as a "too expensive to own" rich privilege is a mirror of Crypto private currency in that they both need to achieve "too big to fail" bailout immortality status to survive. 

The rich use this cursed scheme to oppress us.

That's All Folks
----------------------------------------
2025-11-30
----------------------------------------

...and the soldiers carried out these orders. 

If we are serious about the military following lawful orders then everyone involved gets court martialed.
A simple "please" or "thank you" response of a query costs OpenAI millions in prompt costs. That's crazy. Imagine the actual costs of people chatting up ChatGPT as conversation. As Eric points out this is just point of use cost. Total expense includes training and more.
Had enough? 

Trump declaring war on Venezuela by declaring he will shoot down anything in their airspace. 

Congress is all quiet.

Join an MGO today! 

irreni.social
TIL how to create a simple book from just using text and images using command line tools.

git clone  github.com/progit/progi...
My beef with AI is not with AI. It is with our corporate tyranny and oppression overlords cramming AI down our throats, rush to put AI into everything without testing.
AI violates the "first things first" directive. If tech can't get the simple things correct then it certainly isn't going to get AI correct. So instead of optimizing productivity it is just get in the way.
*~sigh*~ We have AI but my spell checker doesn't have "turmeric" or "microbes". 

A huge uncanny valley in this AI dump is that there is so much wrong with existing technology that needs to be fixed first.

AI is compounding the amount of broken tech stuff we face everyday. Why!
TL;DR Kangaroo courts are now in session.
"Call your Congress people." 

What's really annoying is that:
1. Billions in bribes versus a phone call. Get real.
2. Equivalent to "thoughts and prayers".
The ACAB cops kill over a thousand a year and that number is rising. Plus, tip of the iceberg applies because cops don't self-report their shootings.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-29
----------------------------------------

So the answer to less tourism is even less tourism.
"Indeed I tremble for my country when reflect that God is just: that his justice cannot sleep for ever..."
-Thomas Jefferson

The point here is Jefferson at least had a conscience about the evils of slavery as a slave owner.

No Democrat or Republican reflects on the evils of war from 2001-2023.
The US:

1. Destroys their culture
2. Blames their destroyed culture as failed
3. Rinse and repeat

I'm talking slavery of course and all black culture since. 
In 1993 the number of blacks incarcerated doubled.  Thanks Biden.
It is always worth pointing out repeatedly that Al Gore was right. When asked after 9/11 that if he had won the Presidency in 2000 then how would he respond? Gore's answer, "This is police matter like any other and should be resolved by INTERPOL and the FBI."

Just think of the lives/money saved.
I love how the US never takes any responsibility. We created the governments in Central America that immigrants are fleeing.  iIn the 1980s Raygun overthrow them illegally selling Afghan drugs to fund the coups. Those govs never stabilized. We can't "build peace".
"An estimated over 940,000 people were killed by direct post-9/11 war violence in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Yemen, and Pakistan between 2001-2023. Of these, more than 432,000 were civilians. "

Reap what you sow.

costsofwar.watson.brown.edu/costs/human
Obligatory Bruce Lee post:

This not a skeleton
Am I late to the not buying event today! :P
I'm old enough to predate IDEs. When they came out everyone was told  to use one. I don't although I have had one set up in case I was screen sharing. 

The arrogance of this comment is it is one size fits all. 

Not everyone has the same intelligence.
It's all about the nukes.
Oh look, patent penalties are going to be another way to bribe Trump. Will it ever end?
----------------------------------------
2025-11-28
----------------------------------------

Blessed are we who can laugh at ourselves for we shall never cease to be amused. 
:)
More ad free content. 

You're a light saber baby, I'm a light saber too! 

Fun!

vimeo.com/1042561331
Great ensemble casting. 

That's what attracted me to the 90s/00s Whedonverse. 

But Heroes quickly reached sci-fi escape velocity and turned into soap opera nonsense. Seemed to me that bunch of writers who never read sci-fi helmed it.
I like your taste. Just a heads up as that may not be a good thing for you or anyone. :)
Cat named "Mars" getting ready to business the business. 

Mars Attacks!
Free song, no ads. I pay for that. :)
Turkey Day - After turkey drowsy cure. Well, not The Cure. This is Extreme. Wha? Upbeat song to beat the turkey snoozes or help the merry guests out the door! Cheers! Also, this is a send up to Led Zepplin's song, "Hot Dog!"

vimeo.com/1141158042?s...
Use a VPN. I pay annually for a VPN. I play games in Europe and access Russian sites like yandex dot com. 

Interestingly enough, no ads on yandex. This is primarily why I use yandex. Ads trigger my neurodivergent a**. 

Also Google blocks all VPN IPs from search.

But use a VPN.
"Sin in the Suburbs" 

1964 movie. 

Great title of unrequited alliteration: Suburb Sin.

Also, Sin could mean all 7 deadly sins and more. Sadly title waste, just about one adultery.

Want free movies? 
1. yandex dot com search engine
2. "vk dot com Movie Title"

No pirating needed.
I'm an anti-conspiracy guy, reduce everything to one aspect, all else is distraction. Catholic church/State one aspect, "render under Ceasar that which is Ceasar's". Similarly, Rs, Ds, and the billionaires only care about unlimited bribing of the President. Everything else about T is a distraction.
ChatGPT Conservative headline review

I read one  piece justifying the charges and they let it slip that there is no precedence for this. No ex-military has been prosecuted under such circumstances, certainly not a Senator. I chock this up to ChatGPT writing the article and a lack of editing.
Any system within a hierarchy that is a perceived threat to that hierarchy is eventually dispensed with by money, power, and legislation.
-Law of Hierarchies

Seriously? This is your UX? Unreadable.


Well, I added "powerball" and "lottery" to muted words. Not sure what's up with this recent uptick of lottery spam.

----------------------------------------
2025-11-27
----------------------------------------

The people running the this world are as dumb as Trump. Proof is they are betting trillions on AI and the end results they are betting on are unproven and unknown. You can't even call it a long shot because the risk is unknown.

Field of dreams.
Soon, very soon, some Congress critter is going to read the US Constitution into the record as a speech. Shortly after the Trump Admin will launch an FBI investigation into said person for committing treason. 

You gotta get ahead of these things in your mind to keep your sanity, see?
Had enough? 

Join Mesh society. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Priests and preachers have been fooling people they are morally superior forever and they are much dumber than AI. When AI invents talking bushes, world floods, and nonexistent after life it will gain immortality too!
----------------------------------------
2025-11-26
----------------------------------------

Reminder, Democracy is dead precisely because it is founded on hierarchy. Hierarchy that necessarily is corrupt because power and resources are managed by the one or the few at the hierarchy top.

This is why we should skip fixing it and jump to mesh with no hierarchy.

Irreni.social
Of course we could skip this whole upending of US gov. Reminder, I have all the solutions(tm). 

Start Mesh society. Join an MGO today! 

Irreni.social
We actually need an amendment governing the rules of the House and Senate. Something we the people can only change. We need to include multiple party parity and remove the doluopoly.
My anti-theism agenda has always been to end religious privilege in law.

Religion as club or social gathering should be on equal footing with say a bird watching organization. And equally ignored without comsequnce by those who share no such interest.
We need an amendment to declare all laws, including the Constitution and 1st Ammendment, that reference religion are hereby null and void. Religion is to abide by all profit and non-profit general  laws. Nothing more, nothing less.
The American Red Cross doesn't need any special legal recognition because it's not harming people.

Religion should absolutely be treated equally as the Anerican Red Cross: no special legal acknowledgment.

End religious privilege.
Imagine you "belong" to the American Red Cross by donating blood and money. 

Now further imagine being persecuted for that? Doesn't happen.

Religions rely on special legal protections exspessesly for the purpose of hurting people, our LGBTQ+ family, and then being exempt from consequences.
Post MAGA further actions.

Overhaul the legal system to enable equal pacing. No more overwhelming the legal system to game it.

99% of felony  convictions are plea deals, eliminate .
99% of civil penalties are arbitration, eliminate.
Non-disclosure Agreement to avoid prosecution, eliminate.
I've just listed only a handful of post MAGA actions. What has the Democratic party posted? Remove Trump. That's it.

No denial. Know your enemy.
More post MAGA action: 

Adopt National Ballot Measures. Encourages more people to vote.

irreni.social/the-national...
Banning wealth gains is a natural term limit incentive. It also favors young people just getting started and who have no wealth.
More post MAGA action:

Ban government employees from gaining wealth while in office. Get elected or appointed, then  wealth frozen. Not acceptable? Don't run.
We need bold action to counteract the rise of facism combining church and corporate power with State.

Ban any religious legal acknowledgment,  period. Let them cease being a special case non-profit and join NGOs in general.
Further post MAGA response is to ban both D and R parties legally. Create two new ones with a slate of amendments. 

Ban campaign funds period
Universal Income, Food, Housing, and Healthcare.
Eliminate the Presidency except as a military leader.
Zeroing out trillion dollar corporations and billionaire individuals will remove trillions from the economy, managing the trillions dumped into the economy under Obama. 

That's only a start of post MAGA response.
What should we be looking for in a post "rich directed MAGA mob rule" era? 

A Reign of Terror mob? I already posted we don't need violence. In the computer age we can simply zero out all billionaire accounts. That's managed mob rage.
The US will regress to mob rule. It is inevitable human nature without management. The rich direct the mobs. MAGA is simply a rich directed mob. Mob rage burns out eventually and we are seeing that now. The response cannot be a counter mob if we want democracy.
People power default is mob rule. People power has to be responsible. But how? Zionists are screaming Tik-Tik mob. That's false. They haven't revolted yet. Responsible people power needs managed such that our base mob nature is managed.

That's Irreni World Scale.

Irreni.social
Rwanda was a genocide of the Tutsi by the Hutu. Bill Clinton doing nothing is what he expressed as his biggest regret. Social media, Tik-Tok, made Palestinian genocide public awareness possible. People power is good. Authority power is bad.
Just a reminder that the rich have never been a monolith. Nations are boundaries of rich people warring. The 2008 financial collapse was a rich battle. The next Stock Market collapse will be the same. If history is any indicator, the US will divide into multiple nations of rich factions and borders.
Thinking about it, the economy, the decoupling of the Stock Market from the working class financial state being complete is a Rubicon. The Middle Class is now the Lower Class. What's left of the middle class is retired. Once they die off, it's back to fuedaliam.
As the rich become an ever greater percentage of the economy, the meaning of the economy becomes ever more moot.
Form over substance. Debate is a fashion industry. And since Chistopher Hitchens died, political debate is just cut-off jeans.
No denial. Know your enemy. All of DC.
For my money the Dark Ages are church-State tyranny. You know Western civilization after the fall of Rome and until US founding. I guess we could call them the Church State ages but Dark Ages suffices.
The US gov using SLAPP lawsuits against its own citizens to intimidate people is lawfare.
Conservative media headline review

Multiple articles blasting "illegal" orders in scare quotes saying, Venezuela, no one can name, Venezuela, any illegal orders Trump has given.

As if pointing out the law, any law, is illegal unless someone breaks it.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-25
----------------------------------------

The buried lede here is that it took 10 years to adjudicate this case. It was a simple case of public school prayer. 

10 years

This is why Trump is criming at the speed of light. The legal system cannot keep up.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=HGwR...
----------------------------------------
2025-11-24
----------------------------------------

gaslighting, noun: 1. everything updating all the time causing multiple restarts daily due to "security" reasons.
I'm going to conclude my Sun day sermon with this thought.

My 300 word musings are far deeper than anything DC espoused. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
Seriously. Thomas Paines books are free from the Gutenberg Project. Read Paine and you'll go, OH! Wow, I recognize that. That. That. And that." It's hilarious how smart we can be technically and stuck in monarchy socially.
Thomas Paine wrote about Trump. Because Trump is the same boring repeat of every king, despot, and dictator ever. Dullards all. Yawn.
Everything we are experiencing in politics today has been predicted for generations in general. Because the problems are excruciatingly obvious. As Churchill said, Democracy is a terrible system, just the best we have so far. Well, Irreni is much better, obviously.
DC has been reduced to MAGA in both parties. No solutions, just restoration of a path that brought us here. Blue MAGA wants pre-Trump. Nothing to fix health care, etc.
There are no solutions coming from DC. Just demagogimg what they know for sure can't happen. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
Anyone can complain. Our current leaders are so shallow as to only state the obvious as if we needed them to do so: violence is bad. Such arrogance and contempt they have for us to think we need them to tell us that. 

I complain, but then have all the solutions(tm).

Irreni.social
Irenni is a new expression of improving social behavior by focusing on society centered culture.

Join an MGO today. 
Irreni.social
Self-centered culture is killing us.
Irenni World Scale is society centered. Animal and all life centered. Earth centered. Humans thrive by being a part of the whole. Seeing themselves as part of the whole. This is fundamental to addressing Earth and  climate that exists for millions of years.
The problem with Western culture is it is self-centered. Self-centered doesn't do society centered, or future generation centered. That's a fatal flaw, an extinction flaw.
You don't own land. Not paying property taxes and eminent domain will cure you of thinking that. 

Irenni World Scale allocates land for MGO use. MGOs move to where to work is, where the purpose is. MGOs  don't settle down. They responsibilty up. Settle down is the dead, corpse inert.
I often joked with my neighbor that as a renter of a condo that I had more rights than he did as an owner. Local, State and Home Owner Association regulations put the lie to private property.
Private property and Climate Change management are antithetical by definition. 

We cannot take care of shared resources that are privately owned. Share and private are antonyms. Native cultures took this for granted and had no private property.
There is no private property in Irenni World Scale. Just allocated resources and responsible use thereof. Abuse is penalized.
There is a great line in the  Crocodile Dundee movie. 

"Arguing over who owns land is like two fleas arguing over who owns the dog."

We die. We don't own. Our children suffer for jealousy of private property of a few Earth seconds of Earth's lifespan.
Going further, sci-fi writers in books like Dune saw the fundamental flaws of any system built on hierarchy - bureaucracy and patriarchy. 

Irenni World Scale is designed without hierarchy.
The inherent problems of US Democracy were known to the founders. They were in a rush and left a broken system including slavery for us to fix. That never happened. Making something illegal was never sufficient. Reparations of a mule and acres of land never happened.
A broken system can't fix itself. Who's going to fix a broken government? You can't. Revolution is out, the world is too interdependent. 

No, we need to dissolve the existing system over decades. Slowly and responsibly. Our demise has been decades in the making.

Irenni World Scale dissolves.
Letting billionaires run roughshod over the Constitution by allowing billionaires to directly give the President billions and then crying about the resulting tyranny that ensues is peak Democratic party behavior and on brand. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
Nowhere in the Constitution does it say the President can't threaten Congress people. The Emoluments clause is in the Constituion.

No denial. Know your enemy.
The Democrats in DC are not your friends or allies. They are "We ignore Emoluments clause" billionaire allies because corruption is for billionaires only.  

No denial. Know your enemy.
Either you are willing to die for every part of the Constitution, or you are just plain evil for having American soldiers die just for your desires.
Just a reminder that Trump has been in violation of the Emoluments clause every day in office of both terms. Now they get persnickity because he threatens to kill them. F off.
Project 2025 was founded on the premise that crimes can be perpetrated infinitely faster than a justice system that takes years and decades to prosecute.
I'd say you might like this National Ballot Measure amendment. It includes a starter pack of initiatives like national Healthcare and politicians forbidden to gain wealth while in office. A natural term limit. 

irreni.social/the-national...
Just a reminder there is no capitalism in Irenni World Scale. That's because there is no money, only direct trade of 100% computer inventory.

No hierarchy, no patriarchy, no bureaucracy, no nations.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
OpenAI's business model has always been a race across the "Too big to fail" finish line. Capitalists drool at the mouth thinking about  dreams of anything with even the slimmest of chances of lowering wages and eliminating jobs. OpenAI sells that dream for trillions.
Capitalism was always a sham.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-23
----------------------------------------

MTG didn't write that speech. She's got the QAnon, Jewish space lasers mini-brain. The uncanny valley is she read a script into the camera.  Suggesting a Fox News audition.
AI is being imposed on us, tyranny writ large. People saying "AI is the future, get over it"  are just oppression braggarts. Forcing the future we didn't ask for.
The problem I have with this kinda one dimension reporting is that it is one dimension. Throw up a porn site and you'll get instant traffic. Meaningless.
No mention of bots or propaganda. Has porn usage dropped since States started requiring ID checks? What percentage of X traffic is porn clickbait? Twitter was highly censured and X is doing slightly worse.
Shiny
I don't trust Google. Google has trashed its reputation as a company. The problem with these kinds of publications is self reporting.


----------------------------------------
2025-11-22
----------------------------------------

That's some top-shelf hat right there.
In the 1960s it was reasonable to say "I have a dream" and, "let's go to the moon".

Today it is just, "Cry my beloved country, cry", all the way down.
Go to any Conservative media website. 100% Liberal hatred. Liberal tears.  Establishment media is a mixed bag of Progressive bashing and Trump bashing. The two parties dont run on issues, just against each other. Change their names to reflect this reality.
We need to demand reality. The use of "Democratic" and "Republican" in polling is fantasy, not reality. The reality is Anti-Republican and Anti-Democratic are the two parties. That's the media and the campaigns.
Billionaires sailing their mega-yachts into tyranny oceans of pre-1776 oppression was only made possible by the dumping of trillions via 0% interest loans and quantitative easing after 2008. 

Those trillions have to be snatched back.
Dick Cheney was never, ever held accountable. This lead to Trump. If Rs had been held accountable,then  the Party would have been set back years as leaders were jailed.
If you recall Trump wanted to nuke a hurricane. My guess is he wanted to nuke a fishing boat and got told "No". Congress was informed. Temper tantrum ensued.
"Pensive"

Just a reminder the President has control of the nuclear codes. 

Perhaps it is time for Congress to fix that and require an act of Congress to use nukes.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-21
----------------------------------------

So commitment. 

What's yours? Mine is life goes on and everyone in. 

Cheers!
irreni.social
This Armageddon desire for the destruction of Earth is why I'm an anti-theist. Life can't thrive sitting around waiting for the end times doing nothing.
Christians and most religious people today are the enemies of Mesh society. Why? Because they all call for the end times of humans. The End Times are Nigh! 

We can't manage climate change for human life to thrive indefinitely on this planet while large portions are bringing about its destruction.
Mesh society scales to the Universe in size precisely because it requires the least universal agreement and not Utopia.

Life goes on and everyone in.
Everyone in means no strife to conquer life. Zero.
Life goes on means indefinitely, as long as possible. Life goes on means all life including plants, animals & microbes.

Life goes on means expanding within the solar system, then galaxy, then galaxies, then full Universe.

Life goes on means stopping the Universe expansion death using technology.
Mesh society is not Utopia designed. Nor is it Eugenics or social Darwinism. 

Mesh society is designed around one shared commitment by everyone: life goes on and everyone in.

No constitution for everyone. No group for everyone. Just life goes on and everyone in.
Mesh society is designed around who we all are: everyone in. Mesh society is not designed around those who have adapted the best. 

"The pace of technological advancement today is such that we have guided missiles  and misguided men."
-Martin Luther King Jr, 1960s
Steven Pinker pointed out that while humans have been speaking as long as they have existed, they have only been reading language for a few centuries at best.

Knowing this then knowing 50% of Americans read above a 6th grade level is an astonishing achievement given the pace of evolution.
The question today is not, "what is our national identity", but  'how to scale commitment"?

In Mesh society 24 of 30 people are committed to the MGO itself. Only 6 of 30 work on grouped projects. 

This formula is the right level commitment for animals that never evolved to think in scale.
The US founders knew that eventually the largest government would swallow the smaller States and local governments. That's the historical nature of power. They had no answer and left us none.
The problem of commitment scale with nations is that all projects have the same granularity: the national size. That's not feasible.

Irreni only has a handful of world projects. Nations treat all projects as nation size projects. Nations don't scale.
What Irreni World Scale does is take all the causes, the laws, and the commitments of the US government and granulates them to projects of necessary size. These projects can involve anywhere from just two MGOs, 60 people, to all the people, climate change.
The problem with America isn't left or right. The problem is necessary commitment to the same causes. 

It is not possible to get 350 million people to commit to the same causes. Therefore America as a concept is not possible.

It is possible to get MGO size 30 people to commit to the same causes.
The right nullified America as a concept by calling 1/4-1/3 of the population traitors. That can't be because groups that size define the group just as much as its opposing significant group of similar size. 

Two opposing groups of dissimilar patriot definitions nullifies country definition.
Let's talk commitment. 

The right has been calling millions of Americans traitors every single day since Rush Limbaugh went on the air.

The left is calling millions of MAGA traitors today.

The problem is that large groups can't be traitors.
If the world were Mesh society today then there would be 300,000,000 MGOs and not 200 nations. Your vote in a sovereign of 30 people fixed in size is always important.

This is called commitment. When any bureaucracy, any nation gets too large then individual commitment is necessarily gone.
What we think of as national power today is military might. 

In Mesh society MGO power is independent survival. Military is a stupid waste of resources. The way to think of MGO power is a thought exercise: what if oppressed people rose up and overthrew their oppressors?
Irreni World Scale mini-intro, part 2.

Micro-governing organizations (MGOs) are sovereign. Their power is derived from having 1 year's supply of survival supplies on hand, not military. 

MGOs have power to withdraw from any project or Irreni itself if projects are perceived as failed.
Irreni World Scale mini-intro:
1. Two components of the mesh: MGOs (fixed size 30 people nations) and projects (MGO group efforts). 
2. MGO management of group projects is project 0.
3. MGOs are the unit of "hire", not people.
4. MGOs must have 1 year's supply of survival needs.

irreni.social
Had enough? Join Mesh society with no hierarchy that means no patriarchy or bureaucracy.

Join an MGO today! I have all the solutions(tm)!
Linus of Linux fame is right about NVidia.

The NVidia motto is "Do evil better than anyone else."

1. Crypto mining and environment 
2. AI and environment 

Those are NVidia's big markets.
Just a reminder the Enron was a Fortune 3 company and yet in 2000 went belly up overnight. I don't believe the T admin or these earning reports.
Really ginning up the gaslighting of no AI bubble. 

"Are you experienced?"
-Jimi Hendrix on having AI gaslighting blown up your hoo hah, probably
Too bad journalism is so weakened these days so we could get follow up reporting. The Arabs don't like Isreal anyway. It's always seemed strange how money Trumps the Arab - Isreali antipathy on both sides of that hatred.
You really have to pay attention. After the Mid East Arab business conference in October, it was reported the Arab countries despised Trump's behavior and wouldn't have him back. 

The Arabs having higher standards than the Israelis is weird.

Also might explain Trump's thirst for MBS and Qatar.
Why invent a Democracy replacement? To kill patriarchy for one.

1. No patriarchy
2. No hierarchy
3. No bureaucracy
4. No currency
5. No capitalism

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
Welcome my few new followers this week! Been since May that I had a batch. 

I only have about 10 followers, not 400. 
Most have > 10,000 followers and following. I don't understand karma following here. No money from ads. No impression counts. All good though. As Admas says, mostly harmless!
I didn't know oil on aluminum was a thing.

Detail

Christianty.

Ever the misogyny.
Hattitude.
Same age. Didn't realize.
Samsung/Android doesn't have "ginned up" in its dictionary and corrects to "pinned up". Given the British also used "sexed up" in the same context I'm convinced my phone is "50  Shades of Gray" gaslighting me.
Charles Schwab? Damn. He's rarely in the news. I worked at Schwab from 2000-2005. Back then Schwab was 50% women in management. DEI long before it became a thing. Given how anti-women Saudi Arabia is I'm sure this has to disappoint so many women who worked there.
Not complaining. But inflation? What inflation? I expect to pay for services I use. The ad model is killing is.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-20
----------------------------------------

Well, fooey Discover card.

Not a Capital One fan, had a card for years. This banking consolidation to "WAY!!!! too big to fail" is out of control. Too bad our government doesn't function.
AOC is not a progressive. She bailed on the Green New Deal after being elected. She's a demagogue. All talk, zero walk. I wish people wouldn't settle on being pandered too but instead demanded proof of results. 

Had enough? Join an MGO. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=CtCT...
"Don't give me that do goodie good bullshit."
-Money, 1970s

Pink Floyd, song highlighting the evil of money. They also released a similar song called "Pigs." That's not predicting the future, just observing the past.
Good night! Eh!?
Forbes using money as a measure of success whole not reading the gilded gold plated Whitehouse room disgust of the public is on brand and defines Forbes: money over humanity.
This reminded me of 9/11. A poll taken of US citizens immediately after founded 40% mistakenly blamed Saddam Hussein. The Bush Admin cynically ran with it and ginned it up to 60% to get support for the war.
Cloudflare, aka Monoplyflare, is used to defend against DDOS attacks. However, given they are a monopoly, then how do we know they aren't the ones behind the attacks they defend against? Perfect business strategy.

I stand with Sinead O'Connor, also neurdivergent. 

Tear up pictures of all Popes. If any institution had committed the atrocities against children like the Catholic Chuech other than religion then they would be abolished.

"Governement is for the living, not the dead. Centuries old laws are tyranny of the dead, and the constitution should be rewritten each generation."
-Thomas Jefferson, paraphrased cause I'm lazy.

If we had a functioning government, the single points of failure like Amazon and Cloudflare wouldn't exist. Apps would be gov regulated and Apple and Android would have no say as to the market of phone apps. But here we are.
Oxymoron, noun: 1. Something impossible, 2. Cloudflare, a "central point of cyber attack" cyber security company for the entire internet.

"We can't build modern software without dependencies. The days of running entirely on the client are over, "

Strong disagree

Although the monopolies that exist are antagonistic to being independent. That is not the same as architecture design.
Start replacing the word "cloud" with "monopoly". 

MONOPOLYFLARE
----------------------------------------
2025-11-19
----------------------------------------

Today we were reminded yet again, that the "inter" in "internet" has been monopolized out of existence by capitalists. We need to change the name to reflect reality: 

monopolynet.
"No cans present"

*Mybrid joke explanation: The resemblance is uncanny.
The buried the lede in both the Bari Weiss and Olivia Nuzzi stories: they had readers. "The Free Press" had 100,000 subscribers. 

I mean seriously that's the lede. I'm hard pressed to determine who is the worst writer between the two. And they had readers.

Cry, my beloved country, cry.
The meme that Democrats are not the ones to meet this moment doubly applies to establishment media. We should call this inadequacy "The Nuzzi effect".
TIL about Olivia Nuzzi.

The establishment media fawning over her as a reporter and giving her accolades and awards for over a decade starting in 2011 is a two headstone epitaph for establishment media. One has her writing and the other her accolades. 

RIP Christopher Hitchens and Vanity Fair
We could have believed her.

----------------------------------------
2025-11-18
----------------------------------------

Oh, and zero crypto or just ban it outright.
No reason required.
1. Any corporation with trillion dollar valuation is zeroed out.
2. Any billionaire is zeroed out.
3. 10 years later, zero out any corporation with over 100 billion in valuation.
4. Zero out US debt from 2009 to now. 

This will greatly strengthen the dollar.
Two benefits:
1. Mistaken identity can be corrected.
2. Removes trillions of dollars from the economy dumped by Obama by 0% interest and quantitative easing.
We don't need a French Reign of Terror or to refresh the tree of liberty with blood. 

We live in the computer age. Computers. 

Zero out their accounts and permanently ban them from ever having them. Permanent paupers.
Misogyny.

The right has always had a war on women. Conservative tradition is founded on racism and Biblical misogyny.

And the patriarchy in general is too, this includes Ds. 

Had enough?

Join an MGO today. No hierarchy, no patriarchy.

Irreni.social
Democracy is dead and it died when Raygun took office. 

Inevitably someone chimes in with, " we are not a Democracy but a constitutional Republic".

This is what the use of the word fascism has devolved too. Language evolves but some people treat  language as dogmatic  religion. 

Meh
"If everyone is paid a million dollars, then a million dollars is worthless." - Conservative logic for never raising the minimum wage because prices go up.

AOC caved to corruption on the Green New Deal her first month in office. You know, the deal she protested outside Pelosi's office in order to get herself in the media? 

Now people are floating her for 2028. 

I'm not cynical, people are idiots for forgetting who she really is.
Kinda looks like the necklace is snagged on a button. Weird to paint?
Hattitude

----------------------------------------
2025-11-17
----------------------------------------

The average IQ is becoming less valuable every day. The average US citizen reads below the 6th grade level. 

MAGA gives these people a voice. 

Mesh society has that in common with MAGA.

Mesh society is everyone in, everyone win.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
When lies cost nothing and creating false reality is free money then inevitably, any social group cohesion of these will breakdown and cease to be.
Humans innovate technology like crazy. 

Humans are stuck on pre 20th century gov ideas of democracy, socialism, and communism.

Why?

Mesh society is gov innovation.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
I'm old enough to remember when Bush Sr. closed military bases to cut military spending. A Republican. 

Abolish ICE. Cut military spending not social spending.
We created the immigration problem.

1. Mexico was net 0.
2. Iran-Contra Affair was illegal Raygun drug selling to fund overthrowing Central American govs 
3. CA govs never stabilized
4. Venezuela boycott

The media never reports this

----------------------------------------
2025-11-16
----------------------------------------

Agile was a head fake to ditch waterfall. Kinda like "move fast and break things" was hand waving to ditch testing.
What I like about Zohran Mamdani is that he is a happy person. As opposed to Hakeem Jeffries, who always looks like he was just force-fed century old shoe leather right before speaking.

Unhappy people can't produce happy. 

My decorated timeline is my happy shine. :)


Nothing short of banning the two existing parties and replacing them will have any lasting effect? Why? Because the oligarchs. 

New parties front loaded with anti-corruption amendments.
Here's the childish behavior with unknown possibility campaign promises: they are childish to vote on. It is arguably bad because any success encourages future wishful thinking campaign promise voting. Easy grifting.
And now for something completely different.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=jNv3...
Tell me you are emotionally and intellectually empty by saying the empty. 

If we let them treat us like children that's what we'll get. No policy. No fight. Just empty.
"No Reason Necessary"
Wow
"Whats up?"
"Rage Against The Machine listener."

Weak tea. We need National Ballot Measures.

irreni.social/the-national...

Dr. No: "So, Mr. Bond, are you going to talk?"
Bond: "No."
Dr. No: "Then you leave me no choice but to torture you with this puzzle."
----------------------------------------
2025-11-15
----------------------------------------

zappy friday! 

Three from the last couple of days.
I mean, he literally had an island with kidnapped women and girls. This is rape and trafficking not just rape. Women and girls.
AI wars are here. 

Irreni World Scale has AI defenses. Many of them. 

irreni.social

Tip of the iceberg applies.

90% of sexual assault goes unreported.
The creepy face is black and white, Boo!

Otherwise the Blue!

All about mood of the moment for me.
Consevative media has a reason for ChatGPT:

No empathy.
@foreverlouiseb1.bsky.social

Have you tried Nextflow? They use it at Illumina. It is written in Groovy/Java. Benefit is it  just orchestrates. Dockers with R programs or any other language are orchestrated. Default mode is everything is parallel and not serial. Biology has a ton of legacy code to put in workflows.
Python is the glue language that replaced Perl. It is not really great at anything in depth. Rust or C/C++ for systems stuff that needs performance, ergo numpy and pandas. Python is better than bash at system scripting.  It does okay with ETL until scale.


----------------------------------------
2025-11-14
----------------------------------------

Good time to remind people that T won't be anything without the party. 

We need two new replacement parties.

Lone politicians with no party backing are just wishful thinking grifters.

FDR and T had whole party backing. Carter and Clinton struggled lacking party support. Clinton turned right.
A good a hat and a good smile. Winderful(tm)
Fact: Trump has been in violation of the Emoluments clause since day 1 of his first term.

Carter had to sell his Peanut farm because the Ds forced him to.

The Rs impeached Nixon.

T is carefree violating the E.

The rich are leading you by the nose.
Propaganda only works on the weak minded.

The problem is, best I can tell, propaganda is equally effective on the left and the right. 

Kinda hard to see a path to progress on.

Just believe Mamdani like a 1790 voter. Wishful thinking.
Content of our character.

That's the standard MLK promoted.

The left and right character are one and the same when it comes to being easily lead around by the nose by the rich.
It must be frustrating to be the women who went public, taking a huge public risk, when she reported she was ra*ed by T at the age of 13 in the 1990s.

Believe her? No.
Believe these emails about her? Yes.

She said it happened at Epstein's party. 

I reserve judgment in both cases.
Both things can be true.

1. Trump is evil with decades of proven evidence.
2. The Epstein drops are unproven, judgment reserved.

We don't need them
There is a difference between being a skeptic and a cynic. 

Landing on "I don't  know" whole reserving judgment gets criticized as cynicism by the cynics trying to manipulate. They need you to buy into their BS.
Eat the rich yet believe the rich.

Hunter's laptop? Rich manipulation.

Epstein drops? Rich manipulation.

Which is it? 

Eat the rich or believe the rich? 

Tsk tsk.
Seriously, these emails are old, Epstein died in 2018. 

Barnum was grossly under estimating a sucker born every minute, more like every second.
Ken Klippenstein's reporting in the Young Republican's Nazi text messages had deliberate proof given with the story. Why wouldn't we demand the same process from the "Democratic party" that dropped these emails? 

Face value is all we needed?
The left likes to feel intellectually superior to MAGA, but what's the diff between falling for Hunter's laptop as true and falling for these Esptein Estate drops?

Nothing from the perspective of skepticism. 

Just nativity.
People being told what they want to hear is a serious and universal problem both left and right. 

Mamdani's mouth writing checks that his a** can't cash? Where's the plan? 

These emails being too good to be true? 

I mean reallly?

Are we still, in 2025, that polically naive? Yes, obviously.
I just find it truly sad that everyone just believes things without question. People treat these emails as truth without question. 

We are never going to progress as culture using mob rule of social media. Public manipulation for gain by disinformation.

We need to do better, demand better.
I'm actually not saying they aren't facts. A skeptic reserves judgment, I don't know.

I do know Biden's passwords could have been on that laptop and all the info on it planted from his online accounts. 

There is no age on electrons and file dates are a joke. You can literally just copy them.
The Hunter Biden laptop sat in a political operatives hands for two years waiting on money. Rudy Guiliani finally paid for it. Come on. That stinks to high heave, only facts worth discussing. 

Emails can be easily faked and altered. Those birthday card drawings don't add up. Too much effort.
There are parallels with the Hunter Biden laptop. No one ever cared about the two years they hung on to it and chain of custody as evidence. People just believed the FBI when after a couple of more years the FBI verified it was Hunter's. 

Never trust the FBI.
Especially since all these drops have only helped Democrats, best I can tell. Whereas withholding the drops until this year hurt Ds. Something ain't right.
I don't consider ideas like, "no free lunch", "follow the money", or "too good to be true" as sacred. But they are good touchstones of fools gold. 

These Epstein Estate drops  really whiff of too good to be true. Yet no one is questioning their legitimacy or timing. Too convienant.
I'm not so much the cynic, I have all the solutions(tm), as I am a skeptic. You know, the free wheeling, atheist, free thinker.

No one is questioning the "Epstein Estate". Dropping all these birthday cards and emails. Who? What? Why? Timing? Motive?
News
Hattitude
----------------------------------------
2025-11-13
----------------------------------------

Mood

The weurlitzer organ intro gets me every time

vimeo.com/1050999812
Why do people believe this?
1. Epstein doesn't lie?
2. The chain of custody verified?

My attitude is "I don't know and the court of public opinion is a mob."
Campaigning against Rs is the only energy in the D party. They are very R thirsty.
ACAB 

The reason all cops are bad is they all cover for each other. Cops complain about witnesses not snitching when they never ever snitch. F cops.
Racism in the military did not start with Trump.

www.blackveteransproject.org/post/histori...


This video is rated HA, heavy ads. #UBI, #UniversalBasicIncome, @basicincomeaction.bsky.social 

Patriotic Millionaires is introducing legislation next year to address income inequality. Nothing mentioned here though about universal basic income? Seems like a weird disconnect.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-12
----------------------------------------

My favorite Hot Wheel growing up. Fastest on the tracks.
The rich being insanely rich, corporations like NVidia with trillion dollar market caps, and crypto private currency trillion dollar valuation is all due ro the Fed and Obama dumping trillions into markets  starting in 2009 to manage financial crisis. 

Incompetence is killing us.
Just a reminder that books have been bribes for a very long time. Although given stock market trading on insider tips is so lucrative, I fail to see why Schumer or Fettermen even bother..
Solution scrolling

If we are going to hit the reser button and reboot corruption checks and balances the we need a level set. A complete replacement. Both parties. New Ammendments to fix money in politics.
"It's called being a politician."

Willy is not wrong. Politicians in the US have always been corrupt. Always. Yet, we still had leaders who could legislate.

No more. Game over.
Case in point: smoking.

CA led the way in banning smoking in bars and public places. 

Yet Willy took millions in Big Tobacco campaign contributions.

One reporter marveled at this and asked Willy, "How did you do it? Both take their money and legislate against them?"

Willy's reply?
Solution scrolling

Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Willy Brown, Speaker for the CA Assembly.

Completely corrupt. 

Yet CA set so many legal standards in the 80s and 90s that we take for granted today.
Solution scrolling

I masquerade as a cynic. I'm really not. However, the number of politicians I know to be effective are so rare I seem 100% cynical.
Solution scrolling

What solutions does Zohran have to eliminate corruption? 

What, you can't name any but can name free busses, city grocery stores, and rent control?

Someone is pulling your leg.
Solution scrolling

Do you really think Zohran Mamdani can withstand corruption?

Yes? Cognitive dissonance and insanity.

Young, assemblyman and now mayor. Doesn't get much greener than that. Prime target for easy corruption. Just like young  bartender AOC.
Solution scrolling

Either we are eliminating corruption or we are the problem.

That's the solution.
Solution scrolling

Wake up!
-Rage Against The Machine

RATM was saying this in the 90s. Yet here we are. Still pretending playing by the rules in a broken system is functional. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
Solution scrolling

My first solution is to get out of Blue MAGA denial that simply voting in new candidates will in any way fix corruption.

AOC being the poster child. Telling you what you want to hear, all the while voting 99% Pelosi for a million dollar Manhattan lifestyle?
Solution scrolling

Yet here we are after a Tuesday "win" for Ds and immediate betrayal by Ds pretending that  pre-Trump thinking still applies to elections.

Are State governors arresting ICE? ICE is kidnapping children. 

We are nowhere near normal.
Solution scrolling

1. We need to replace both corrupt parties
2. We need to get rid of the Electoral College.
3. We need a climate change, corruption, Healthcare, military problem solving approach now.
Solution scrolling

Unless we are talking drastic measures to solve our drastic corruption problem, then we are insane and in cognitive dissonance.

Full stop
Solution scrolling

Replacing both parties means
1. Replacing all existing politicians and banning them permanently.
2. Replacing all Supreme Court justices.
3. National State conference to replace the Electoral College.
Solution scrolling 

We need to get money out of politics, first.

How?

Two new parties. Obviously the Ds and Rs are completely corrupt. We need to replace both parties now.
Solution scrolling

Blue MAGA is pretending we can go back to pre-Trump politics as normal.

Pinning hope on elections only is Blue MAGA. 

Either corruption is the overall cause of all politicians failing us or it is not. Both can't be true.
Solution scrolling

I get it. People want an easy out. Just pretend voting in new candidates is enough and ignore corruption. That's the cognitive dissonance and insanity both centrists and progressives have in common.

Pathetic and sad.
AOC the bartender traded her ethics for a million dollar flat in Manhattan life. 

AOC voted with Pelosi 99% of the time. She is not progressive. She is a sell-out who mocks you about that to your face. 

Like Obama, she wants celebrity and cut.
Solution scrolling

People are excited about AOC. 

Yet AOC bent the knee to Nancy Pelosi on the Green New Deal her first month in office. Why? Corruption.

AOC openly mocked us to our faces when wearing an expensive gown to the Met Gala that said in red text on white designer gown, "Tax the rich."
Solution scrolling 

Nancy Pelosi is well known to be the most corrupt, trading on insider knowledge more than anyone else in Congeress.

Yet people are calling a great Speaker. Both things can't be true: most corrupt and great speaker.
Solution scrolling

This same insanity and cognitive dissonance is on display Zohran Mamdani, Graham Platnar, and any other D elected Tuesday.

Which is it: money in politics is our root problem or elections are normal and just simple replacement voting works, aka musical chairs?
Solution scrolling

Yet everyone calling for Schumer's head has also stated that we can't have nice things until we get the money out of politics.

Which is it: get the money out or replace Schumer?
Solution scrolling

So many people on the left, both centrists and progressives alike, are calling for Schumer's head. 

I even heard people promote AOC as Schumer's replacement.
Solution scrolling

The response to D betrayal this week is both insanity and cognitive dissonance.

People want Schumer replaced as Senate leader. 

Yet what is the root cause of our electoral politics constantly failing?

Corruption. So how is playing musical chairs going to solve anything?
Solution scrolling

The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again expecting different results.

Cognitive dissonance is the pain you feel when you believe something is both true and false.

----------------------------------------
2025-11-11
----------------------------------------

Blue MAGA, noun: 1. can we please pretend things are pre-Trump.
Democrats doing the only thing they care about: running against Rs.

This is how Ds campaign. If this is cathartic to you then that's their win. 

"No comment, next question."
They litilerally spent six weeks in shutdown and in the end the Ds negotiation skills got us, checks notes, nothing. This was all for nothing. 

Had enough? How about a proposal for National Ballot Measures?

youtu.be/SshDl_mYRB4?...

So this week, Useless Susan Collins cast a deciding vote to allow Trump to illegally kill Venezualans and Angus King a deciding vote to surrender to Rs on ACA costs. 

Our two Senators from Maine. 

Death and Destruction.

Their new nicknames.
So Angus King being Useless Collins. Again. 

On an upbeat not here is a beautifully restored 1919 silent movie comedy where silent exaggerated acting makes for great comedy. Casting is spot on.

The Oyster Princess
vkvideo.ru/video-391653...
The people who created the problem can't give you the solution.

You can't get ahead by staying even.

Aphorisms are not enough.

Replace both parties now with entirely new platforms that have common planks but varying policies for managing climate change.
Excellent Climate Change reporting.

I'm opposition that citizen mobilization is enough to change existing governments. 

We need new systems. Mesh society.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=YykT...

----------------------------------------
2025-11-10
----------------------------------------

I would pay for Classic WoW if it didn't suck. Turtle does great and are not a billion dollar company.

Further, both retail and classic are beset with bots, gold selling and boosting (BGB). The economy is f'ed. That's why I refuse to pay and play. Blizzard now considers BGB part of the game.
I subscribed to retail from WotLK until BofA. By that point World of Warcraft had become too much information, TMI. Bazillions of zones. quests, races, pets and mounts made everything pointless. I couldn't learn it all. Vanilla WoW is huge. I haven't played all the content going on 8 years.
The funny thing about Blizzard whining Classic WoW is 20 year-old-code fragile is that Turtle WoW,  a private server, does fine. 

Blizzard has financially abandoned Classic WoW and just treat it as a cash cow. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=w_Tu...
Corporate American and DC want things as they are. They are not going to change them.  The people with power can all be moral reprobates and give you only the lesser of greater evils as choices to vote for. 

And that's the plan.
The people with 6 figure salaries that could afford food easily were given it by corporate America.

Welcome to America.
The ironic thing about feeding employees is that at the very upper echelons of corporate America they do.

Google had 5 star chefs create meals for employees. Tech companies have breakfast cereals, tea, coffee, and soda all free in break rooms. Bagel Friday's. VMWare supplied fresh fruit free daily.
Think about how easy it would be for all companies to feed employees with pay and regulating that. 

Then think about why we are not doing it.

No denial. Know your enemy. All of DC.
If we want to move, even in the slightest way, to direct trade then we have to do that ourselves and forgo demanding public policy change. DC won't do it. They want desperate voters easily pliable to vote for them.
Solution scrolling

We could start demanding public policy of meeting basic sustenance needs of all its employees with minimum wage.

That could address employed SNAP recipient food needs. 

The point is we are not seeing any solutions like this. Because the system is working perfectly, for them.
Stock market futures are how trucking companies avoid day-to-day price fluctuations of gasoline. This is why spikes at the pump aren't spikes at the store due to gas prices spiking.

A single person has nowhere need the financial tools a large corporation has. Buying futures is one of them.
Solution scrolling

Minimum sustenance in addition to minimum wage.

Employers by groceries in bulk and with stock market futures to shield employees from grocery price fluctuation. 

An employer with a five year futures contract for grocery staples could have outlasted T.
Company stores in the US were monopolies of price gouging historically. Today we can make the food payment detached from pricing. 

Of course Walmart doesn't care about their employees because they are not feeding them. Sam Walton would be ashamed of his kids.
Walmart could make it really simple and give every employee the same fixed list of grocery staples they can have for free every week. Nothing stopping them. 

In some respects they already do this. It's called an Employee Discount. The problem is you need money to get that discount.
Your company could stock a store much as the States are starting now. They can easily monitor every thing used by employees. This is trivial to do.

Walmart is a store and could give out food today. Instead they have their employees rely on SNAP.

How inefficient is that?
You could literally start a job that pays you directly in groceries. Electricity. Gas. And then add cash for other expenses. 

Why not? Why aren't we doing this?
The point is money is a concept of delayed ownership because we couldn't track things. Now we can with computers. Simple as that. 

We don't need money. We don't need capitalism. 

We can can start direct trading with unique serial numbers today, nothing stopping us.
Solution scrolling

Did you know that 2^64 is larger than the number of atoms in the Universe? We use 64 bit computers. 

This means we could time expire reserved serial numbers and  give anyone and any entity unique 2^64 serial number blocks and never run out of numbers, ever. 

Good for history.
The public not understanding money means the rich have the means and opportunity to do pretty much anything. Control everything.

The defense against money is to simply get rid of money and instead rely on direct trade. Computers are a thing now. We can inventory anything with serial numbers.
Understanding this shift in power shift of the rich is key to understanding politics today.

The public at large has never understood the original brain hack: money. Ask any financial advisor. They'll tell you the public doesn't understand money.

Money is the soil in which the rich toil.
During WWII the rich in America were still invested in America being a country. 

Not today. No political party can withstand the rich abandoning the idea  and experiment of America. 

The rich own the whole world now. One place is the same as any other. Also, super yachts.
Today we still have mortgages but not the Fairness Doctrine (FD). Why?

Because mortgages were successfully gamed by the rich. Their is literally trillions wrapped up in mortgages. Plus the banks own everything, we own mortgages.

Not so with the FD. The rich never figured out how to game it.
Money is an original brain hack.

In the 1940s they didn't frame the Fairness Doctrine or mortgages as defending against brain hacks. Instead they called it public trust and public good.

The public can't be trusted with unadulterated speech freedom or unlimited financial freedom.
Money is an original brain hack.

Betting the farm was a reality in poker games and the stock market. This fueled the depression with home owners betting their deeds on stocks.

The Fairness Doctrine and mortgages were response to public use of money.
Good news though, I have all the solutions(tm). 

Just join an MGO today! 

Irreni.social
All these dystopian futures predicted by sci-fi writers was meant to be a warning about the rich and high-tech, and not just  entertainment, just Star Wars.
This sermon warning about the rich gaining unbeatable master control has been preached by countless sci-fi writers last century. 

We ignore this sermon at our peril. This high-tech control by the rich is as obvious as it is inevitable unless we heed the warning and take action.

Irreni.social
Join mesh society now. We only have a window of perhaps a century before the rich become unstoppable, entrenched in exclusive high tech offense and defense.
A sermon is a warning. If the billionaires succeed in their quests for indefinite lifespans and genetic engineering of superior human traits, then resisting their master control will be nigh impossible.
The AI take over is viewed by its proponents as not just better brain hacking, but outright brain replacement. 

And all politicians support this.

Not only will their be no D hero to help us, Ds and Rs want master control and not our freedom.

No denial. Know your enemy.
The Ds relying on hatred of T and Rs as their only strategy to get elected makes them exactly like Rs relying on hatred. 

No good can come from this.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Our brains are being hacked. No politician  today is promoting policies to suppress hacking, the bigotry and hatred.

The reason is they all want to hack our brains. Why persuade voters? That's hard work. Hacking the brain of either hatred of the left or right for being haters is cheaper and easier.
As Alexander Pope put it, a person knowing only one religion is sure. A person knowing multiple religions, not so much.
Teaching people to think for themselves liberates us from childhood brain hacking. This is what conservatives hate most and call being left, being educated.
Turning Point USA is brain hacking of students. They claim this is in response to left brain hacking.

Education is brain empowerment. That can only be seen as hacking if it threatens childhood established hacking. Ergo home schooling.
Conservatives frame brain hacking as culture wars. They do not offer defenses. They demand master control as Christian Nationalism. Their dogma is master control is the only way and they fight for their version.
When has anyone in then Democratic party discussed brain hacking seriously. Bernie? AOC? Anyone? 

Nope.

Just me and my proposals with Mesh society.

No denial. Know your enemy.
If the Ds cared about us, they would be passing new brain hacking regulations to prevent bigotry and hatred brain hacking. 

They are not. Because they want our brains hacked.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Democracy has been dead since Raygun. The Democrats are not passing new Fairness Doctrines passed a century ago. No the Ds are deregulating not regulating. The Ds are your enemy. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
By 2010 all conservative web sites were just hate. Paid for by rich conservatives to stay on message. If one removes all the hatred and bigotry of conservative media today there is nothing left.
AM hate radio took over most AM stations by the early 2000s. They were not just political shock jocks, they were pure hate for the left.
Actually, I need to back  up. Jerry Falwell and the Moral Majority is the origin of conservative hate, and the take over of Raygun and Republican party.
Conservative media until Rush Limbaugh and Fox News wasn't so hate based. The Nation had liberal hate, but also policy. George Will each Sunday talked conservative policy without hate.
Gambling and ChatGPT are new brain hacking vectors destroying society today. We are defenseless. 

Mesh society has extensive defenses. You can choose.

Irreni.social
The VERY is designed for space. Spaceships and Mars settlements will have stored versions of the VERY. Delayed communication is the norm with Cold networks. Virtual reality Earth is available 24/7 for Space travelers and Mars settlers to have delayed conversations in.
The VERY allows for far better, more productive, and greater opportunities than the Internet today. 

You are required to be real you. You can teleport instantly anywhere on Earth and talk to anyone in only real settings in accordance to all hot and cold policies of all parties involved.
The VERY camera room should be large enough to hold the entire set of 30 people in the MGO for conferences.
The VERY is monitored by management world  AI. Management AI works with the MGO AI to identify brain hacking safe places as determined by the MGO hot and cold network policies.
The VERY is an exact replica of Earth, no embellishment. Everyone uses a camera room to enter. The camera room is 4 walls with floor and ceiling projection of a location on Earth. Everyone in the room is in the same VERY location. Real you is projected into the VERY as well.
A solution scrolling invention of Irreni is the VERY: virtual Earth, reality you. The VERY is a Hot network monitored but not censored by the management AI running the VERY.
The Hot and Cold network policies are designed to defend against brain hacking. Each MGO of fixed size 30 people is sovereign and therefore create the policies. 

Brain hijacking and hacking is serious business with no defenses today. 

Irreni has heavy defenses protecting your brain.
Hot network policies to curtail brain hacking may include:
1. Sibling MGOs.  MGOs that are completely trusted.
2. Individuals trusted.
3. Time limits. Say 3 hours per week of hot network.
4. AI monitoring. AI can shutdown/change subject.
5. Human monitoring.
The hot network of today still handles real-time communication. 

Accessed to the hot network will be regulated by each MGO.
The Cold network is the primary network of use. Little of any hot network info will ever be accessed by most people.
The hanging onto information for 24-72 hours allows the AI to request a rewrite from the source. 

All information is heavily censored, including personal such as email. 

Humans are an easy attack vector. Ergo spam and phishing.
Gas lighting is serious brain hacking. YouTube is one big gaslighting machine feeding us what we want to hear.

The MGO AI must rewrite all info to remove bigotry and hate, two things that are killing us today. Bigotry and hate is MAGA. That's all MAGA is. Remove those and no MAGA.
Cold network brain hacking defense.

The MGO AI hangs or censors Internet information for 24-72 hours. This cold information is then installed on an air gapped local network, the Cold Network. 

We need to move away from instant gratification, instant communication.
AI brain hacking defense. 

Irreni requires every MGO of 30 people to have AI defenses, a house AI.

This house AI uses rules created by the MGO to censor all hot network, the Internet.

The MGO AI also defends against network attacks like DDOS.
Brain hacking is serious business, a serious threat. 

Irenni includes 3 more defenses plus total isolation being a survival unit.

1. AI: AI wars are here, ChatGPT
2. Cold network: today's network is hot
3. 20% world exposure, 80% work just within the MGO
What we need is a defense against brain hacking.

Enter Irreni World Scale, aka mesh society. 

Each 30 person node is a survival unit that can and will 100% cut itself off from the world when under brain hack attack.
As we get better at hacking the brain we become greater at risk at going extinct.
Okay, not quite ultimate. Religion isn't a 100% effective brain hack. Verner Vinge speculates what happens if we ever do find something 100% effective. Same as the Matrix. The end result is not dystopian, but destruction. We only survive today because brain hacking is limited.
Religion soothes the mind of guilt. But far more nefarious is that it gives license to people with no conscious, like Trump. He's a Christian so all is forgiven.

Religion is truly evil in ways so horrific because it amplifies evil as good, and people believe it. The ultimate destructive brainhack.
Religion gives license, hacks the guilty conscious to no longer feel guilty. Cast a magic spell in your brain praying for forgiveness hits the reset button.
"Good people do good things, bad people do bad things, but for good people to do bad things that takes religion." -Steven Wienberg

Greed spread by  capitalism is egged on by religion, obviously. Or we wouldn't be here.
Religion, if it lived up to its ideals, curtails human brain hacks. What religion calls sin. People assume religion is benign because it is perceived as curtailing undesired behavior.

It does no such. Religion makes things much worse.
In the future people will get paid for 8 hours of brain use by computers. Supplying them with consciousness. Those will be the high paying "jobs". Eventually, the computers just take over. All because of a capitalist pursuit of all the money. Greed. Greed is a brain hacking of ourselves.
The 1999 movie, "The Matrix", is 100% brain hacking. Skynet gains consciousness not by better software, but a brain-computer interface. This is final stage capitalism. We'll be more valuable as software than as labor. Computers take over.
Capitalism preys on our proclivities, aka brain hacks. Sugar, alcohol, drugs. The proliferation of gambling surprised me. I'm don't watch sports. Society is failing safeguards. 

Join an MGO today! 

Mesh society has no currency, no capitalism. Just direct trade.

Irreni.social
Hack the brain. About 10% of the population has a gambling addiction brain hack. ChatGPT is new. Verner Vinge in the book, "Rainbow's End",  speculates on brain hacking of 100%.

"Once more, with feeling."






"Dream Nestle"

3 from today
Wow! This does happen on occassion. One button click of auto-level colors and brightness and instantly turned to blue.
So crazy its astonishing! Click! 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=PcWn...
Saturday night jam! Fun to see people having fun.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-09
----------------------------------------

Time to put on Black Sabbath.
"The New Avengers"

"One second, someone said your surname is Fluffwaffle?"
"Funny. You think Im funny. I'm a clown, here to amuse you? Tell me, what's so funny about me?"
This was a tough one.

----------------------------------------
2025-11-08
----------------------------------------

Useless Collins

Always the moderate when her doesn't count.

www.bangordailynews.com/2025/11/07/p...


They have been outsourcing to India since 2000. I've been on a remote calls with India ever since. 

AI and outsourcing are two things every company that is demanding RTO does.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=ln7V...
"Stuck in the middle with you."

Paintings from today. The Steelers Wheel song seems legit. 

Clowns to left, jokers to the right. 

Boxed  in on both sides in 2025. We shutdown suffer while they play politics. None had the decency to forgo their salary to show solidarity with Fed workers.
"Not cardboard. Mehow"
Lovely colors in the dress.
groovy
----------------------------------------
2025-11-07
----------------------------------------

Nancy Pelosi will go down as the worst speaker. 

Why? She gave us Trump.

In 2006 she unilaterally decided to not investigate anyone in the Bush administration for war crimes or profiteering. Worst decision ever for the US. If she had held Bush and the Rs accountable we wouldn't be here.
On one hand, some Ds piling on R messaging that Mamdani's win is a nothing burger is them tacking right, and t'other some Ds riding his wave is them tacking left. 

This is not hedging. It is blatant cynicism. I mean 100 proof. No shame, just playing both sides bigly.
Establishment Ds trying to ride Mamdani's wave is Establishment complete shamelesness brand.
Universal Basic Income is insufficient. Dollar value is too easily manipulated and look how long it takes minimum wage to be legislated. 

We need Universal Basic Income, Food, Housing and Healthcare. 

This is a step in that direction. State owned groceries can give away basic food .

"I'm mad Brad."
"Damn it Janet"
Throw rice.
Kilgore Trout level. :)

"I'm sorry,  you said butter fries not butterflies?"
----------------------------------------
2025-11-06
----------------------------------------

Echo chamber products. The thinking here is the product of echo chambers. Years of Fox News type propaganda and YouTube type algorithms have funneled people into reality pockets they truly believe in. 

Elections aren't going to address this decades in creation culture.
The use of moderate coincides with using projection and cherry picking quotes. This isn't both sides'ism. This is only the left is projecting their insecurities and cherry picking distortions. These guys have "the truth". 

The cognitive dissonance is off the charts.
K**k was the biggest tool. His college campus campaign was a program created for him and funded with millions of dollars by right wing billionaires. Pretty fair to say we really don't know what K**k actually thought cause millions of dollars.
I saw this interview of two right wingers and thought it was instructive. 

1. Moderate. The constant use of "moderate" . If one thinks K**k was moderate then what is far right? 
2. Paid journalists. Leftist journalists are just tools being paid.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=i-nc...
Something I ate didn't agree with me. 

We need to bring back this archaic usage of agree.

GM: "Ooooh, 20. The vorpal blade doesn't agree with you."
Just a reminder that women have been outperforming men in US colleges for decades. Especially in law where more women graduate with law degrees every year. The patriarchy still exists, though. Perhaps now is time to fix that.

Join an MGO! No patriarchy or hierarchy. 

Irreni.social
I'm a first wave feminist given my age and a lifetime of feminism. It's fantastic to see the women win elections this week. Also at least two Muslims. I support all minorities. We need a name for that, say hippist. Hippy power. :) Down with bigots. Peace out!
~sigh~ If this were,I don't know, 30 years ago then I'd say they gov should regulate AI to demand confidence factors as inputs and outputs. 

"Set confidence 1st degree, 2024, English only. What are..."

Sadly, not going to happen in our lifetime of increasing gov stupidity and corruption.
AI companies aren't going to expose confidence factors though because capitalism breeds arrogance. 

No, Fuzzy AI will probably have to come from Japan, again.
What should happen with every single AI/LLM  response would look like this:

Cinfidence: 3rd hand information, oldest source 2022, translated from 3 different languages.

Hallucination detection then is possible based on confidence.
LLMs "learn" by feeding back information. Each time through a feedback loop increases hand count. 

We also need time and language confidence. How old is the oldest source information and  number of languages translated.
One easy way for AI to manage hallucinations would simply be degrees is separation. Is some respinse 1st, 2nd, or 3rd hand information where 3rd hand is 3 or more.
What AI calls hallucinations today is a perfect example of Western culture arrogance. It elevates error to human standards. No. Every AI answer has a confidence of error. AI industry doesn't want you to have any whiff of that.
Lotfi Zada, the inventor of Fuzzy, discovered quickly a deep hatred for Fuzzy due to Western arrogance. Every thermometer, every instrument measure, has an error rate. Acknowledging an error is bad capitalism. So we drop the error bounds and say, "It's 20F temperature outside."
Western culture is arrogance. Western culture arrogance rejects assigning error rates to numbers. Our answers are to be perceived as 100% correct.
Errors compound as numbers are combined in conditions, a union if you will. This is called the Fuzzy space. One can easily assign numbers to larger spaces as lower confidence from 0-100% confidence. Or just low, medium and high values.
Fuzzy has a feature missing in LLMs today: confidence. LLMs can't identify its own errors. Fuzzy is called Fuzzy because every answer has an error bounds associated, aka confidence or confidence ranking.
Japan built the largest stock market AI engine in the 90s using Fuzzy. Westerners are mentally prejudiced to only use math equations as linear algebra using GPUs.

Fuzzy AI is a billion dollar startup idea.
Japan saw the efficiency of using Fuzzy in hardware due to the real-time requirements and processing speed of just using if-then rules. Sony is big on Fuzzy.
There are mathematical proofs showing any statistical equation can map to Fuzzy and vice-versa. 

Fuzzy is not intuitive though. One mathematician called it the cocaine of mathematics because the upfront simplicity of if-then rules is deceptive.
Fuzzy Logic replaces the  need for a GPU with simple if-then rules with error bounds on all numbers. These error bounds create Fuzzy spaces.
At some point in the not to distant future, AI is going discover Fuzzy Logic. 

AI has parallels with hardware in that AI is too inefficient today. 

In hardware Fuzzy Logic replaces statistical math for efficiency.
"Sometimes more is not always better. Sometimes more is just more."

This comes to mind whenever I peruse Web/Cloud software development stuff on here. 

Mostly, I'm here for Art & Irreni. But software pays the bills.
I read it.

Dick Cheney never receiving justice in US or International courts tells us the state of justice in the US/world.

William "The Bloody" Krystol being whitewashed by liberals as a founder of The Bulwark after being Cheney's chief propagandist tells us the state of Liberals: pandering trumps morals.
I grew up around machine politics, Chicago. The Mayor is just one of many Democrats running a city of 10 million. 

We need to move beyond cult of personality voting. This country has always run on parties. 

I just don't get the immaturity of cult of personality.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-05
----------------------------------------

Hattitude. Get it.
Effective altruism. This is the end game.
The Nazi element has gotten so troublesome we now have Ted Cruz openly debating with Nick Fuentes about how much Nazism Republicans should adopt to try and regain messaging control.
The Frankenstein fake reality has gotten out of control. Right wing talking heads are crafting their own fake realities and grifting good money.

This is especially relevant with the Nazi wing of the right gaining popularity. 

The right's days of staying on message are over.
Conservative headline reviews

The right's strategy is a Frankenstein precisely because it is devoid of facts. Fake narratives are free. Grifters are going to grift. Since 2000 billionaires on the right paid right-wingers to stay on point. Today, in 2025, the billionaires aren't funding everyone.

Bring back map reduced index.

But they can't.  The source of LLM data is stolen IP. They need to have that source material disconnect: copyright is exact expression. 

So they will never bring back map reduced index. IP money for large corporations, not for thee.

Bring back map reduced index.
Bring back map reduced index.

LlMs have two components: data and algorithms. The data is the value. 

There is a choice. We could feed all the LLM data into a map reduced index and have a search engine far vaster than ever before.

Bring back map reduced index.
Bring back map reduced index.

Given a choice of LLM or mapped reduced index for the same data, people will overwhelmingly choose the search engine.

And, on occasion, ask LLM to rewrite. Or maybe even chat.

Bring back map reduced index.
Bring back map reduced index.

Google claims billions of results in seconds. Map reduced index does that. Bring it back. Give the people what they want. A search engine of source materials.

Bring back map reduced index.
Bring back map reduced index.

LLMs rewrite source material disconnecting the underlying source. 

But the underlying source is what we want. Bring back map reduced index
Bring back map reduced indexes. 

20 years later all words were bought and links paid. Content is 100% dynamic, nothing to crawl.

Then LLM appeared. LLMs were fed all books in all languages plus dynamic content. Words unsold, yet.
Bring back Map reduced index.

In the beginning all web content was static. Crawled and map reduced indexed. 

Questions returned answers as links to source materials.
I love how over-the-top Renoir was with, "I'm just painting the young and the rich as happy as they are carefree."

If you really wanna troll AI start referring to AI for what it is: algorithms. 

AI is just algorithms. The AI hype is just that: hype. 

AI is a brand of algorithms. There is no more to it. 

Just at scale, which is why AI needs a Sun to power it.
Ummmmm

Before AI there was algorithms.

Remember how algorithms were destroying society because echo chambers and cognitive bias?

Guess what AI is algorithms. There is nothing special about it other than scale.

----------------------------------------
2025-11-04
----------------------------------------

The reason the rich own these super yachts and islands is to have a place to fall back too when the stocks crash and resulting economic chaos.
BTW, the Fed is back to printing money, $24 billion. 

The problem is they already flooded the zone. That ship has sailed. The dollar has no value.
Sometimes I wonder if T is just an over wrought patsy. A fall guy propped up by the rich to absorb all the heat when the stock bubble bursts. Which explains why T is so over the top evil. A complete disaster shock absorber.
Don't expect competence from people with zero experience albeit Obama, Trump, or Platnar. Or Zohran Mamdani.
It is worth pointing out that Graham Platnar and Obama are the same. Masters at telling us what we want to hear, void of any experience and talent to govern. 

I mean, what could we expect from Obama in 2009 having zero economic experience trying to manage economic crisis? Panic and incompetence.
Printing 2x to 4x more dollars was something so stupid that even T could have come up with it.

Delicious irony that the incompetence that destroyed us was from the people judging T incompetent today. 

lol
There is some delicious irony here. 

In the 1970s the "Tri-lateral banking" conspiracy was three major banking cabals controlled the world.

Turns out the banking cabal was in 2008:  banking incompetence and panic. 

And they didn't control anything, the just printed 2x to 4x more currency.
Just a reminder that I have all the solutions(tm). 

Their is no currency in mesh society, just trade. No capitalism. Capitalism didn't exist until the 18th century. We don't need it.

Irreni.social
The blame may yet happen when the current stock market bubble bursts. But I doubt it because T is everyone's focus and will be everyone's punching bag.
So FU Obama, Tim Geitner, and Larry Summers. They are getting away with their destruction of the US and world economies without blame.
Crypto is just a pure MLM, multi-level marketing scheme made possible by 0% interest rates and quantitative easing. 

In other words, Obama screwed us. It's all Obama's fault. And the twist is that the crypto scam took time so the wealth curve didn't really spike to 2x and 4x gain until 2018.
The way crypto will be taken off the blockchain standard is it will be taken over by the central banks. When governments decree this then blockchain is over. 

The value was never blockchain, but the billions of public currency dollars pumped into a private currency. 🥺
The crypto destiny is either:
1. Remove the blockchain standard the same as the gold standard was removed.
2. Remain a novelty private currency scam of low turnover value.
Crypto has to have multiple computing entities agree that a serial number has changed owner. That rate of turnover is once per day. Way too slow for the stock market. Only fiat currency can turnover at today's turnover rate. This means all crypto has one destiny.
I mentioned a while back that something never discussed is turnover rate. Before computers, money quite literally changed hands. Today, computers can turn over currency and change hands at network nanosecond speeds. A single dollar can be owned by thousands of entities in a single day.
People are getting conned by Bitcoin. The technology is not its value. 100% of its value is artificial scarcity backed by billions of public dollars. The billions of public money is not the scam. The scam is who controls the exchanges from public-private and also the artificial scarcity.
You could issue a new private currency on a range of serial numbers. As public money is pumped into the private currency exchange then the serial number price goes up. No blockchain required. Any single web site of ownership registration would do.
The video starts out by noting the dollar was removed from the gold standard. Gold is fixed in amount. Bitcoin is a quasi fixed amount of private currency. You don't need Bitcoin. The same effect could be realized by only trading in limited serial numbers.
The stock market being divorced from jobs is explained here. 

Major oversight: it left out crypto. Crypto is private currency the was seeded with billions of public currency to pump and dump. It worked. The underlying technology is not needed.
www.youtube.com/watch?app=de...
The funny thing about the conservative movement being pro-slavery was they were very much about States rights. No more. We are seeing a shift with "soft succession" discussion to liberals being more State's rights. There should be some common ground.
The Feds tax us more than the States. The Feds then give that money back to the States with strings attached. Power. This nullifies State power and makes "soft succession" moot. Heck, States can't even feed their own people without SNAP.

Repeal the Income Tax Amendment. Restore State sovereignty.
When I started Irreni I happened upon a conservative, States rights, checks-and-balance analysis of the Income Tax Ammendment. Repeal it. Force the Fed to beg States for money. The Feds today tax us more than our States, nullifying State check on Fed power.




For the younger ones who many not know Funky Town. :)

www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z6dq...
"The Funky Negotiator"
Serious and funny. Definitely meme worthy.
"No Funky Business"

Old photos are a challenge because of the film, camera and time.

One click auto-level and blue-yellow balance.
GIMP, free on all laptops, has a curves feature for leveling colors and light. It takes some time to know what's what.
One click auto-level and color balance of blue-yellow. These older paintings often hung in candle and smoke filled rooms.
One click auto-level.

religion, noun: 1. disbelief in "I don't know" as a truth claim, 2. disbelief in empathy as the source of all morality.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-03
----------------------------------------

I'm thinking more the Continental Congress and other meetings to write the constitution.
I know I got the art from Bluesky. Didn't record any info. I just like decorating my timeline with art. 

It would be interesting to know if Bluesky as any app for reverse image lookup for things posted here if you find one.
The news should be paying attention to this revival because religion dominance by cultural dominance very much works. We should be tracking the Christian rate of joining MAGA as tyranny progresses.
So this so-called revival movement by MAGA Evangelicals is a thinly veiled carrot and stick. Join us as white Christians and we'll overlook the past, otherwise be deported. Something like that.
Christianity has ever only been predominant culture by force. Church and State directly for thousands of years. Cultural pressure of be Christian or be nothing. No job, no marriage, no family, no nothing. Christianity has never worked by voluntary alignment. Never.
I've been pointing out that MAGA is persecuting Christians. Immigrants from Latin America are  more Christian than American citizens. 

So the "Unite the Right" is tenuous as only "Unite the White Right". 

Immigrants increase Christian numbers. American Christians are abandoning Christianity.
Conservative media headlines 

Not being covered in news. 

There is a "Unite the Right" movement afoot. Evangelicals are pushing a Christian revival. It's not a revival though. It is Christian dominance. Evangelicals are telling all Christians become MAGA and we'll forgive you.
Progressives need to grow up, overcome their 3rd party demons of completely different times, and create two new parties. Both existing parties need to be abolished to h**l.
If your party can't beat the most obvious corrupt evil villain, them it is correct to assert that both parties are not the same. One can't beat a fascist and is therefore worse.
If you are wondering why you didn't hear about the ACA rates going up at the beginning of the year, then you, my friend, are not cynical like me. The shutdown is about making T and Rs look bad. Nothing else.
Just a reminder, or two.

1. Solution scrolling
2. I have all the solutions(tm)

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Ask yourself this: where is the D party "Project 2025" equivalent and counter? Nowhere. Because they are a just "not Republican" platform. 

The Ds and Rs are both the same in billionaire corruption and contempt for their voters.
I'm old enough to have lived through Newt Gingrich's "Contract With America". This had 100 items. It was silly. But you know what? It was still more care and concern than the D party puts forth today. That's how much contempt the Ds have for their voters.
So, the "both parties are not the same" is a conceit.  That conceit is Democracy is alive. Democracy is dead. No one represents those who feel that Democracy is dead. The Ds are promoting Democracy is dead by defining themselves solely based on how bad Rs poll.
The Ds are not running on anti-corruption. They are not collecting corruption receipts in real time to show us. The J6 committee did s**t all by design. Garland did nothing. Bondi is infinitely more effective than Garland, i.e. the corrupt are more committed than the law keepers.
Best I can tell the Ds are MAGA. Make America not MAGA again. 

So our choices are collapse America at lightspeed today, or within a generation speed if Ds are in. The rich get richer in either case.  Rate of decline is a very cynical platform. I would know, I'm a cynic.
S**t ton of D operatives smarmy on here about the Ds being seen as too far left. Ds aren't too far anything because they have zero platform. They aren't fighting for abortion rights, SNAP, abolishing ICE or anything. The Ds are do nothing. That's the problem. Ds don't stand at all .
Also, if Americans disapprove of the D party more than T then whining about both parties not being the same is the height of arrogance. The Ds are not going to self reflect if they see no reason to change.
Seeing "the two parties are not the same" show up here again. 

Dems lead today by Ts disapproval gap. Because running against T and Rs is the only strategy since Pelosi became Speaker in 2006. Ds only win when Rs lose. Ds need T to be bad. That's the same.
Solution scrolling

You are very important in a spaceship/Earthship of size 30 people. We all need to see ourselves as needed and important, having meaning.

Earthships of fixed size 30 provide that. 

We are missing importance today.
Solution scrolling

Earthships are bulkheads of survival. They offer maximum resilience against natural disasters like pandemic or asteroids. 

They also provide a balance of individual distinction within the 30 person MGO and humanity dependence of billions in population.
Solution scrolling

Anarchy: "No government."

Thomas Jefferson: "The government which governs least governs best." 

Irreni mesh society smells like anarchy but, in reality, is the least government possible. 

* Most independent 
* Most freedom
Solution scrolling

Irreni mesh society is an Earthship design.

Earthship, noun: 1. A stationary spaceship.

Mesh Earthships are fixed size 30 people in size for many reasons. 

However, they are in place survival units of least dependency, of least gov need.
Solution scrolling.

The secret to mesh society success is maximized indepence.

I call it Spaceship politics. A spaceship has to be self-sufficient in all things.
Many auto leveling filters on your phone. I find 1-2 typically work. This one hits different for most of them. Impressive.
Abolish ICE and the Republican party enablers.

Did you know that Mesh society includes manufacturing? MGOs have mfg facilities for clothing, food, electronics and furniture. 24 of 30 people in an MGO work for the MGO. The other 6 work what we call a job today. 

@hackadayofficial.bsky.social


Who won country Bingo with Nigeria? What, Panama, Mexico, Greenland and Canada in his first months. I've lost count of who we are invading. My Bingo middle square is Argentina. We give them $40 billion and then threaten to invade - that is soooooo Trump's brand.
It is being reported that Venezuela is lobbying Russia hard to intervene, because, you know, oil. Colombia would ally with Venezuela. We could start to see some funky axis materialize opposing America's lawlessness and aggression.
Here's a thought. What if Venezuela invades us first? 

That's the kind of world we live in now.
----------------------------------------
2025-11-02
----------------------------------------

Die Hard is a Christmas movie and Ballroom Blitz is a Halloween song. 

Also,  the current ballroom moment. :)

"Someone in the back said 'Everyone Attack!' and it turned into a ballroom blitz." 

ad free on Vimeo

vimeo.com/1132811970
I guess it is also worth pointing out that Washington won the Revolutionary war with resorting to torture. We weren't even a country then. 

But hey, the country with the worlds largest military now needs to torture.
Washington was asked once why he refused to torture British POWs for intelligence. His reply, "Because I want to live in a country better than Britain." He wanted to build a country he wanted to live in*.

George W Bush abandoned that principle when sponsoring torture. 

*Slavery dissonance applies.
I believe we need UBIFHH:

Universal basic income, food, housing, and Healthcare. We need all of those to hedge against capitalists raising prices nullifying the basic income.
Discount Pence. Ha! Pence is as bland as that white paste you used in kindergarten. Pence has as much imagination as blank paper. Discounted that!



My favorite Halloween music. I saw this in some movie as a young one and can't remember what. Music spooked me big time.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=ho9r...
----------------------------------------
2025-11-01
----------------------------------------

Umm, you might be wondering why have chain voting via proxies? 

Safety. Minorities in this country have been persecuted since the founding of this country. Chain voting allows for a minority to vote for a proxy that then could be one of the majority who then takes any vote heat.
Solution scrolling

I have a proposal for National Ballot Measures. Video and document linked below. Some discussion is on this feed if you want to solution scroll. 

The solutions are out there. 

irreni.social/the-national...

www.youtube.com/watch?v=SshD...
Solution scrolling.

Congress has proven it can no longer check the power of the executive branch. 

National Ballot measures gives us a check on all federally elected and appointed officials, including the President. 

Of the people, by the people and for the people  or suffer political death.
Solution scrolling.

National Ballot Measures are not constitutional amendments or laws. They are mandatory guidance to lawmakers or suffer a vote of no confidence. 

To keep things manageable then only one ballot guidance is allowed each election.
Solution scrolling.

National Ballot Measure guidance initiatives are simple. Examples:

1. Tariffs are now solely the power of Congress.
2. Immigration is now solely the power of Congress.
3. Universal healthcare provided by the US government is mandatory.
4. The D and R parties are abolished.
Solution scrolling.

National Ballot Measures then have a annual confidence vote by all voters. In addition:

2. Guidance initiative. A guidance initiative is a short, 300 character guidance that Congress must pass a law before the next no confidence vote.
Solution scrolling.

Realize that banked votes are public and always tallied continuously. This means a confidence vote tally on Nov. 5th is like a continuous public poll except the poll includes all voters and also on Nov. 5th can have real consequences: you are all fired.
Solution scrolling.

National Ballot Measures act differently than State ballot measures. 

1. They are annual votes of no confidence. Vote banking is used each year to tally a confidence. Less than 50% confidence and all federally elected and appointed officials are removed and banned for life.
Solution scrolling.

Of course once elected banking votes has no effect on the day-to-day corruption of law making in DC.

For that we need National Ballot Measures, direct democracy.
Solution scrolling.

The fun part? 

You get the billionaire money. Bribes are allowed. They are publicly disclosed and all the payment equally distributed among all the voters in the block. Further, the largest vote getter wins and spreads the corruption money to the largest number of people.
Solution scrolling. 

Say the limit for a ballot is 10. Vote banking then would only count the top ten voting blocks of chained votes as a primary. Come election day all the voters have time to change their banked vote to chain to a proxy to one of those in the primary. No party needed.
Solution scrolling.

Vote banking can be used to replace political parties. 

Vote banking can be used to replace political parties.

The chaining of proxies to create large voting coalitions does what parties do today. Allow candidate number to be manageable.
Solution scrolling. 

Mesh society is managing or engineering. It is administrative. That means it is not ideology. Further all the ideas of mesh society can co-exist with any existing world government, including US Democracy.
Solution scrolling.

Mesh voting is vote banking with proxies, chaining, and a corruption price. Corruption reflects what we already know about human nature, corruption will manifest. In mesh society we manage it by making it public and distributing payment equally among voters or as a vote swap.
A corruption vote is publicly disclosed. The price is listed and payment made at the time the vote is tallied. Further, the bribe is payment is distributed to equally to everyone in the chain. 

In mesh society the bribe can be a vote swap. I'll vote for what you want in exchange for your vote.
Solution scrolling.

So, I've covered vote banking replacing vote casting. We add to the block or chain voting to create coalitions. 

Now we add corruption voting, or bribes. Corruption voting works like this. Since all bank votes are public then a public price can be listed with that vote.
There is only one kind of vote in mesh society: project votes. There are no political candidates because there is no hierarchy. 

Projects are experiments. Projects have stated objectives. If the experiment fails to meet objectives then the project is canceled at end of term.
Mesh society is not a utopian society. It is a managed society. Voting blocks of banked votes of religious ideology are allowed. And expected. 

Management is key.
Chain voting, or block voting, in vote banking is how people lobby with things people can relate to. I may not know anything about coral reefs, say, but I do care about climate change in general, and I use a proxy vote for climate change management expertise.
Chain voting is not regulated to just two parties. The only regulation is six degrees. A chain can have a maximum length of six. 

If one is unhappy with a voting block on any given subject, then there is no penalty for breaking a chain.
It is expected in mesh society that chain voting makes up the bulk of votes banked similar to political parties for casting votes. 

The key difference is no legal enforcement. We have just two parties in the US due to those parties rigging the system to just those two using laws.
Chain voting limited to just chains of size six in Irreni is somewhat analogous to your political party. What do I know about coral reefs? Yet there is a project vote for coral reefs. 

The answer is voting blocks by chain voting. Vote banking allows every vote to bank a proxy instead of yes/no.
Solution scrolling.

Yesterday I intro'd banking votes not casting votes.

Banking votes enables many opportunities. 

1. Chain voting known as six-degrees voting in Irreni
2. Corruption voting, bribes
Strongly disagree with the "taking back" objective in the thesis- just MAGA redux. Religion has always been used by the State and the rich as political cover for evil. Slavery, etc. 

"The State will corrupt religion long before religion makes the State more moral."
-John Adams
Not a popular take, because we all know I'm  popular, but your first office should not be as Senator. That should demand years of proven track record. Any parrot can tell us what we want to hear.

"Halloween Impersonation Contest"
----------------------------------------
2025-10-31
----------------------------------------

"I Put Them There For Halloween, Don't Spoil It."
"Straight Into The Camera You Go"
I should be clear about something. The golden rule is common to all cultures. Worthy Western religion practices are all found in Eastern religions. The inverse is not true. Religion doesn't deserve or get credit for what is common culture.
The Autism spectrum being a buffet of discrete conditions started in the 70s. It is great to see at least that much survived. Everyone has a mental profile, a mental buffet of abilities and conditions. Everyone should be learning how to manage that profile, just like autistic people and me.
As kids we stumbled on role playing as therapy with D&D. I mean, we intuitively used role playing as therapy. But, every person has a different need that changes as life happens. Death, anger, all have different role exercises we found.
There are some broad spectrum disciplines that have their own buffets.  I meditate - for 30 seconds. Analogous to Jefferson's count to 10 practice when angry. Except my time outs are general purpose.
Steven Covey's, "The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People" was another PhD author grift. 

Easy tell? One size fits all. Being neurdergent if someone is not promoting a buffet of "try what works for you"? It's a grift.
A former girlfriend read Jim Grey's, "Women are from Venus, Men from Mars" book and insisted we try things. I was well into human nature studies for Irreni and myself. A crap book. She didn't like hearing that, he had a PhD. Guy was drifting.
Don't get me wrong. Religion is universally bad as a concept. Self-help and New Age attracted a ton of televanglist grifters because money. One has to be an able reader, able to filter out noise. Not always easy to do.
However, when I read self-help teaching Eastern religious practices like chanting and meditation, I found they worked. 

Again, I'm sorry most people aren't able to handle the Internet firehose of negativity. I can. I was trained. It is possible and the practices are ancient. Unnecessary pain.
I'm an anti-theist, against all religions. However, if something in religion helps people we should consider. 

I was raised Methodist, went to free babysitting,  I mean church, weekly as a kid. I tried prayer. Completely useless. No practice taught by my church survived scrutiny.
Eastern religions also encourage inventing new practices. Heck, in Hinduism you can even invent new gods if you need them. Eastern religions are far less clergy based. You can salt and pepper to taste.
Prayer is the only practice in Christianity. If it doesn't work you are the problem. Buddhism has a s**t ton of practices and if one doesn't work then try another.
Eastern religions have an engineering mindset with dogma whereas Western religion is just dogma. Disciplines and practices in Buddhism are meant to be tried and used when they work for you. If something doesn't work for you, like say prayer, that's okay in Eastern religions.
... The key difference between Eastern and Western religion is that if the supernatural is removed from Christianiry, there is nothing left. Whereas in Eastern religions, remove the supernatural and you have a ton of practices and disciplines that work.
While it is true that being neurodivergent is a kinda natural defense against certain mental pressures, I'd say the practiced ones like meditation are more effective. 

The key difference between Eastern and Western religions is...
New Age, self-help, and Eastern religion movements during the hippy years were fantastic. I'm sorry they died out. They were demonized just as D&D, Satanic Panic was by the evil Christians. I'm sorry that subsequent generations didn't get the same counter-western culture experience.
Self-help, Eastern philosophy and New Age all got conflated.  Christian conservatives hated it and still do. However, the self-help movement enabled me to live independently being neurodivergent.
My self-taught Buddism allowed me to focus my empathy towards what I could control. Social media is not doom scrolling for me. It is awareness. Awareness, like focus, is also something to train. 

I was very fortunate growing up in the 70s that Buddhist practices were part of the New Age movement.
Focus trains the mind to not feel guilty about not feeling guilty. Millions of people die daily. No one has enough empathy for that firehose of tragedy. Focus on things in your life that you can understand and deal with. Then let go.
Buddhism is infinitely superior to any western religion. And it is not close. 

For example, focus on the things you can control is a foundational tenet. Meditation, visualization and other techniques are exercises of centering and focus.
It is better to light candles than curse darkness. Mesh society is comprised of thousands of solutions like vote banking. Whining or fixing, our choice. 

Join an MGO today to start fixing things .
Irreni.social
Mesh society is innovation replaces religion, engineering not ideology, Irreni. 

One innovation is vote banking replaces casting votes. Banked votes are public. Votes are continuously tallied. 

1. No more polling 
2. Corruption resistant:  mass changes are easily detected. 
3. Random election days
Trump lies, stiffs contractors, and just broke a tarrif deal with Canada because of an ad. Why is the media reporting in his "tarrif  deals" as if they have any legitimacy?
"Surrounded By Orange! What Now?! O! Me!"

Okay, that's kind of a long title. Still.
"Nonpussed" 

bewildered by human sized cat.


----------------------------------------
2025-10-30
----------------------------------------


"You cast a spell on me!"
Our government is working perfectly for large corporations.

They get what they bribe for.
The economy is so complex that predicting with even a smidgen of success is very valuable. The Presidents have never understood the economy, and yet we attribute entire economic success or failure to them. We need to grow up as a society and stop hero worship.
The problem with humans is things that took a group effort get credited to the king. Like when the iPhone came out and Jobs was given all the credit. Until we stop doing this, Kings it will be in spite of the protests.
Oh boy, the derision heaped on Mamdani is just terrible. Why would anyone want that for themselves? A reminder that we shouldn't be focused on single people as heroes, but instead focused on building a new party to spread out that kind of nuclear political heat. Brutal.
The game plan.

A healthy stock market and anarchy everywhere else. 

America
Sometimes when I answer the I say, "Yellow".



I like these three piece side-by-sides. Made them regular for a time.
This is a repeat, JFYI
Boo! "You put ketchup on spaghetti?"
----------------------------------------
2025-10-29
----------------------------------------

Boo!
If the government seems at cross-purposes that's because it is.

1. Pleb chaos, no law and order
2. Wall Street, law and order

The rich want their riches protected by police and Wall Street. The rich think they can have their cake, financial order, and eat it too, pleb disorder. 

Mary Shelley
Government of Gated Communities

Greed of pigs feeding at the trough has always defined the rich in the US: slavery, Manifest Destiny that includes Hawaii, etc. However, until the 21st century enough of the rich wanted America as intended to keep it afloat. 

No more. 

The Epitaph of America


My corporate plan was $400/month on $5k deductible. Cobra was $1k a month. Cobra is a very bad joke.

Here's a question for conservatives to ask AI. 

Have pregnancy centers increased in any substantial way support for infants since Roe was overturned?

I don't need to ask, I know the religious and don't want to feed the AI energy drain that insists "thank you" don't be used due to energy costs.
Just a reminder that Christian Conservative dogma is that charity is sufficient, so cut Federal wealthwfare. Soup kitchens are a Christian thing. Let's see if Christian charities are up to even one month of replacing SNAP.
There are 900k cops in this country and 1.8 million in prisons. ICE will add, what, 10k? 

We can't love both freedom and the police state.
Democracy died in 1980. In 1989 the Supreme Court invented the unfalsifable, "license to kill", fear of life standard. In 1992 the Biden Crime bill added 300k cops, now 900k. ICE is just a culmination of killing and incarceration of people of color. 

No denial. Know your enemy.



Just a reminder, cops kill thousands every year and we are fine with that. Also, cops don't report who they kill, journalists do, and  those thousands are only a fraction.

ACAB
----------------------------------------
2025-10-28
----------------------------------------




----------------------------------------
2025-10-27
----------------------------------------


Raygun didn't support AIDs efforts because gays.
Please keep it to that.
Good news! I have all the solutions(tm), all the new ethics.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
We need to update our social rules, or ethics, to the current high tech society. Religion by dogmatic definition is incapable and philosophy trapped in navel gazing equally so.

We are killing ourselves applying bronze age ethics to an information age.
The irony is that one needs a fully developed understanding of philosophy in order to learn philosophy from modern material. You need it to separate the 90% noise from the 10% signal.
I'm sorry if you dove into reading any philosophy as philosophy today because we need a reset of our government, only to go, WTF is this mess? Modern philosophy is 90% noise. Don't go there is my advice.
I am a philosopher fitting human nature into all of nature. I am not a philosopher compared to, ~waves hands madly above my head~, whatever this philosophy  is.
To date, my philosophy, ethics, about engaging philosophy is to not engage philosophy at all. I ignore formal philosophers because they are poison. I eschew their vocabulary for plain talk.

Hierarchy doesn't scale because as size grows so does corruption at the top.

Plain English.
Philosophy is concerned with what we ought to do. Should we just unleash new technology without first studying the social impacts? That kind of thing. Philosophy has completely abandoned its mission.
I've often struggled with how to communicate upgrading modern ethics without running afoul of modern philosophy today that is hubris and arrogance. Except Einstein. 

The word philosophy has been forever trashed to mean arrogance. Ugh.
The reason everyone despises philosophy and philosophers is no one cares how big your brain is, only your heart. Einstein had a big heart. He loved people. I do, too.
As a child, I thought of myself as a philosopher being passionate about ethics. Once I started reading formal philosophy then I quickly realized philosophy was not about ethics but ego. Philosophy morphed into vocabulary empire pissing contests. Sophistry and soliphism. So I'm not one of those.
Philosophy, noun: 1. Fitting human nature into all of nature and deriving ethics as rules for society.
Ethics. Philosophy is ethics. I gave up on the video after 10 minutes because ethics was not mentioned. Peace. I left a comment on YT.


Detail

Boo!
When ChatGPT writes all your columns then you can write 100 pieces a day.
The best way to approach joining an MGO is Bon Appetite! 

Good appetite! Be hungry for a better tomorrow and prepare delicious meals!
Mesh society runs parallel to every existing government and poses no threat. In fact, by reducing dependency on government services Mesh supports existing governments. 

As service needs converge on zero then existing governments can be downsized.
Mesh society stands juxtaposed to anarchy. Anarchists want to do away with government and then figure things out.

Mesh society wants to dissolve government by proving we can take care of ourselves first with greater extent over time thus gradually reducing the need and dependency on government.
The definition of an MGO is:

1. fixed size thirty people
2. a year's supply of survival goods including food, water, energy and medicine. 

MGOs are survival units and as such grow their own food. 

Thereby reducing dependency on government and dissolving it.
One way to imagine dissolving government is a thought experiment. Imagine we are all preppers owning bunkers with years supply of food, energy and even basic medical. Further imagine we all went into our prepper bunkers and survived for a decade. When we emerged there would be no government.
Umm, probably worth repeating that Mesh society is designed to coexist with all existing world governments. 

Mesh society dissolves. Mesh does not overthrow. It dissolves by reducing citizen dependency on government to zero and eventually the taxes. 

MGOs are survival units.
To whit, to defeat the billionaires means to defeat hierarchy. 

That means ditching Democracy and adopting mesh. 

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
It has been said that sometimes we have to create the world we want to live in. Be the change we imagine. 

I imagine breaking the perpetual cycle of rich abusing us. That means ditching hierarchy and adopting mesh.

Good news: mesh is much easier. Just MGOs, projects, and membership management.
The simple foundation of the experimental system -- MGOs, projects and MGO membership management -- gives mesh society infinite scalability. MGOs can create/grow/shrink any meshes continuously as defined by management projects. The borders of meshes are experimental, not geographical.
There is a special project that MGOs must subscribe to and that is a management project designed by the MGOs. This management project's main purpose is to manage tribalism of small groups. It has one sovereign power: membership. MGOs can be broken up or leave management for bad behavior.
Mesh society has only one government, the micro-governing organization (MGO) of fixed size 30 people. These are the mesh nodes. These nodes cooperate by project contracts that trade goods directly, no currency. Just MGOs and projects are the experimental framework.
Absolute power corrupts absolutely is an observation of hierarchy.

We've known this for evah.
And yet, aghast, here we are talking only about left and right, liberal and conservative. 

The rich are the desired design outcome of hierarchy, concentrating resources and power at the top. Hierarchy is an heir system, is king making as CEO, President or bureaucracy head.
I must confess I get a we bit excited when people talk about the Electoral College (EC). The EC doesn't scale. It is beyond absurd today. A single city, New York, is larger than 39 States in population. 

A city. 

The US Constitution wasn't designed for a city be to be larger than most States.
The good news is that I have all the solutions(tm). All you need to do is join a micro-governing organization (MGO) today! 

irreni.social
The next step in human progress requires dumping hierarchy for experimental: no bureaucracy, nations or Democracy. 

Either we dump hierarchy or hierarchy will self-destruct solely for petty jealousies of the egos at the hierarchy top.

Get busy living experimental or get busy dying by hierarchy.
By contrast, hierarchy doesn't scale at all. Hierarchy, kings, are petty and jealous being ego driven and not experimental. They can never fully cooperate by definition. They can only ever compete and be jealous, only cooperating temporarily to get ahead. End. Of. Story.
Climate change is a scale problem. We can't address climate change without entire world participation.

Irreni World Scale, or mesh society, scales infinitely because its foundation is experimental. Mesh society is organized around experiments.
If we are going to address scaling society then we need experiments as a social practice. Experiments erase religion by replacing traditions. This means we have grow up and reject religion if we want to scale.

So grow up.
There are a ton of reasons all religions can stereotyped but one that stands out is experiments. Experiments change systems over time. 

No religion has experiments. Religions are dogma. In fact, if a religion adopted experiments then it would change so rapidly it would make itself nonexistent.
So why doesn't the average person think about scale? 

Easy. Religion. Religion is based upon one thing and one thing alone: tradition. Tradition was science before science. Basing a society on tradition when we now have science is beyond stupid. We know how to engineer based on science.
I'm an engineer. It is impossible that a system designed for 5-10 million in 1789 to function for 360 million. Add to that all the technological advances and the US Constitution has been rendered completely useless based upon scale alone.
The problem everyone in the world has right now is they shape problems based upon ideology alone when in fact all our problems are root-cause functional: scale. What works at one order of magnitude doesn't work for another: albeit wealth, population, or any of the related metrics.
We could extend the life of Democracy by watering down the corruption. The easiest way to do this would be to split the US into 30 different countries of 10 million people. 10 million simply because looking at the world today then 10 million reflects the size of the best Democracies.
Democracy is dead. It cannot be remade for one very simple reason. Democracy requires hierarchy and hierarchy concentrates power and resources at the top. The more successful the Democracy, the more corruption. Eventually corruption brings down the Democracy, the cycle of Empires.

irrerni.social

----------------------------------------
2025-10-26
----------------------------------------


Conservative media headline review

Conservatives think that T getting donations of $300 million for the ballroom and $130 million for military but no donations  for SNAP is owning the Libs.
Boosting, bots and gold selling are now the norm. Players and Blizzard are in agreement that these are features they want. Blizzard is doing just fine in terms of subs and some are reporting best ever numbers. 

Warcraft has moved on. Both player types and Blizzard.
Why is Classic WoW so much better? It's not. Turtle WoW is going away, at least in the US. I did some investigation into Classic today. I left Classic after 6 mos. in 2020. What I discovered is that the player base has changed, as well as Blizzard's acceptance of it. Two different communities.

Boycott them and they raise prices. 

Keep boycotting.
Just checked Hermon winter forecast:
Most of central and coastal Maine are also predicted to have lower-than-average snowfall amounts. From Lewiston to Bar Harbor, it appears that a mild winter is in store.

Orange done right.
I sure am. Mesh society:

1. No nations
2. No capitalism
3. No patriarchy
4. No bureaucracy 
5. No hierarchy

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Just a reminder, Jenn Budd reported that Fetynol is shipped in on cargo containers, where only 4% are inspected.

They aren't drug boats. There has been zero reporting of a fentynol shortage on the streets.


The Matrix is the end game of AI. Pay people 8 hours a day to plug in and provide consciousness for computing.

No denial. Know your enemy.
If you think that money is going to the military then you probably think that money is going to the ballroom too -- and I have a bridge in Florida to sell ya!

Parroting T lies is a disgrace.
Mood 2
Mood 1
Talk Is Cheap Gavin. 

I think I just pulled a nickname.

Show, don't tell.

Why is it taking a Canadian to do what the Dems should be doing on a daily basis by running the Reagan ad during the World Series?

No denial. Know your enemy.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-25
----------------------------------------

I mean we are in a post law era. 

1. T cut federal business law enforcement to nothing.
2. Tributes to the King are insurance.
3. Pam Bondi's brother is getting cases thrown out.
Because, T I guess. Who needs ethics.

GoFundMe used public IRS data to automatically create over 1.4 million "donation" pages for non-profits. Guess who gets SEO priority?

bloomerang.com/blog/gofundm...
1981 History:
1. China: no trade
2. Japan dumping chips, better quality cars
3. Global economy push begins
4. Ds want tariffs to protect labor. 

1992 NAFTA was a fight over globalization and labor.

Labor lost.

Trump tariffs =  bribes for him for American market access.
@womensartbluesky.bsky.social
This notion is rampant where developers BS managers to pad their resume. As a backend engineer I'm often at odds with over engineering FANG chasers. So much of cloud use use is just nonsense.
Hate and gambling are natural pitfalls for 10% of human nature. Everyone else needs daily reinforcement to get sucked in, which sorry to say, is cheap to do using the Internet.
I expect Blizzard to add gambling to Warcraft soon. *sigh*
Professional sports morphing into WWE performances was not on my bingo card. People gambling home titles on stocks is why mortgages exist. I've got land in Florida to sell you is a 1920s gambling/speculation  meme come back to life.
Can all the States pick up the tab for SNAP please?
As a developer then one is always faced with more time required to update to current versions then time to write code. Management always prioritizes new features over old code. 

It is a judgement call as to what code time is spent updating to latest version.
Here's a fun fact about  web testing. Google releases a new version of Chrome every week. You don't update your code every week. Your code then becomes split brain with weeks, months and even years of different implementations from the current version.
Arguably my perspective is skewed because I'm an automation eng on the back end, deep in bowels. One typo can bring down Amazon. I spend most of my time testing and also adjusting to shifting sands. Still, AI is just text generation. Even front end devs have lots of testing.
Good software development means being good at human interaction with your team and management. 

It is truly wishful thinking that all software developers do all day is type code.  

Yet here we are. Billions of dollars wasted for an IDE extension to type code.
AI will never protect management from themselves. Never. AI is the ultimate sycophant. 

You only go along to get along to a point. If you don't work in tech then you have no idea just how insane management can be. 

I help management see the light. I'm good at it.
One of the best compliments I've received in my 40 years programming is when my PM said to me, "You are the best technical money Schwab never spent." 

Go along to get along is also known as pick and choose your battles.
Another reason AI replacing developers is hysterical is return to work. Management wants people in office because, la tee da, in person collaboration is necessary. 

Can AI do in person collaboration?
Here's one example of why this is hysterical. 

Management uses a process called "Agile" to track hours, a timecard if you will.

That timecard has a 40% default waste deducted off the top. Meetings. Emails. Phone calls. Non dev stuff. 

Management knows this. Yet AI is going to replace developers.
What I find humorous about corporate America thinking they can replace developers with AI is they believe, and I'm  not making this up, that developers just write code. Hysterical.
I'd argue IDEs, which I don't use, are more relevant than AI code generation. Engineering typically will design CI/CD to use IDE capabilities to reduce CI/CD time. CI/CD is a bigger chunk of overall time then typing source code text. Arguably then IDEs are optimizing a larger part of total time.
AI code generation falls into this pitfall. Typing text of source code is 10% of the time. The other 90% is,  in part, building, packaging, and CI/CD cruft. The biggest time sink is testing. Also changes due to feedback. AI code support is optimizing only about 10% of a developers time.
There is a principle in computer science, Amdahls Law. Amdahls   Law states that optimizing 90% of  10% of the total time is only 9%. This may seem obvious but sadly it is an extremely common pitfall.
As an atheist my whole life I go along to get along when in Christian settings. Especially growing up. But, the same mindset is needed in tech. Whether it is Github, VS Code, and now AI, I just nod my head. No reasoning with things not rooted in evidence.
What's really sad about all this tech culture is the similarity with religion. I'm an atheist: show me evidence. Tech culture is steeped in hokum just as much as religion. It is truly sad. You would think tech people would be more scientific. Nope. Tribalism. VS Code or Jetbrains.
I'm still entrenched in the IDE wars. As in I have never used an IDE. Only kiddies use IDEs. Professionals like myself use either VI or Emacs. Every claim about IDE productivity is untested and baseless. And now so are the AI productivity claims.
I have to say, flame wars these days about AI are more like spritz bottle wars relative to the 80s and 90s. You know the kind used on cats.

Oh, a fellow Hermon resident. Perhaps you can buy and turn the 67 acre ski resort up for sale into a garden. Easy peasy. 

:) 

www.bangordailynews.com/2023/11/03/b...

----------------------------------------
2025-10-24
----------------------------------------

Boo!
The tech bros published their "effective altruism" plans over a decade ago. They believe that the ideal world population is one billion and the plan to get there is simply to withhold food and medicine. They want a large pandemic.
oof
shiny!
Bit of a challenge to level.
Q: Is Graham Platner Bernie 2.0 or the next Fetterman? 

Clearly this demonstrates the 0 qualifications required to run for office problem. This is just one of many failings of the Constitution, and we've never addressed it. 

A:We need new parties.

T owns the Rs. Bernie is just talk, no party.
Donations to the "ballroom" will get into billions. Meanwhile T will stiff the contractors who build it. This is just bribery.
The Supreme Court and the Republicans. 

Trump should have been impeached and convicted with DOGE. Congress not defending its primary purpose, spending, is a complete failure to uphold the Constitution.
States have formed coalitions already to prevent people from dying, vaccine coalitions. I would hope food to replace SNAP would be easier?
The Republican Party needs to banned for not doing its duty to hold the Presidency in check. The entire T admin needs to go to jail.

The Democrats won't do either.

No denial. Know your enemy.

The Domcratic party backing Coumo should tell us something.

No denial. Know your enemy. 

Both things can be true. Both parties are the enemy.
*cough, cough* Umm it has come to my attention that not everyone is familiar with the Midwest traditions regarding the card game, Euchre. Let me explain. 

"Go big or stay home" means that if you are going to take a trick with trump, then use the largest one you have or don't bother.
Now do nukes.
My favorite color is all of them. But, if one color it is then you can do worse than pink. Really frames the face well.
Boo! Season to taste!
There is a fashion statement by someone that you should always have one thing red. Also, go big or stay home.
Now that's color!
----------------------------------------
2025-10-23
----------------------------------------




This feed is art and social engineering. 

This is the hardest of hardcore engineering. For chocolate lovers:

www.chocosphere.com/collections
Permanent change versus temporary change. 

A national general strike would be good. Adding to that would be better. Specifically we need to think about how we got here: instant gratification.  Ideas:

1. Right to repair
2. Forever products
3. Direct barter
4. DIY
Mortgages were intended to help people buy houses and keep them. That is obviously not the case any more.
Mortgages were a reactionary creation to the stock market crash of the 1930s. People back then would put their house titles up for collateral on stock market buys. 

How is today's 8% interest not inflation/punitive  relative to the 4% I bought with in 2018? 

Mortgages don't help consumers.
Just a reminder, direct barter is okay. Trade used items.
again, we don't need individual progressives. 

we need a party.
More fig leaf. 

This elicits the question why? It's not like tech companies care about society. Something else is going on. No one walks away from money on the table.
this is a problem for all the cutting edge medical science currently ongoing. who can afford it? who can learn it? who can train to use it?
JFYI, public school chaplain news

m.youtube.com/watch?v=mGSg...
Just a reminder the Supreme Court took all kinds of donations for decades by donors and was never prosecuted.
Seriously, or perhaps jovially,  name anything public that religion does that is joyful, fun, uplifting, kind, and smile inducing. Not in the US. Christmas is only fun for solstice traditions. Take away the festivities and then Christmas is religious. 

Religion sucks.
I missed the obvious, the Fun party. Ignoring religion goes without saying with that name. Happy, Joy, Uplifting, and many others work as well as the name Fun too. Religion is all just persecution and grievance vomit: a murder of joyless knobs.
If I were to start a new party then I'm thinking:

1. Secular party: religion is ignored for any law
2. Science party: see 1.
3. Porn party: see 1. but  with extreme prejudice
4. Naked party: see 1. and unclothed from any and all donations for anything.
5. Art party: see 1. with fun.
But, on the other hand, opposition research would spread mesh society to denounce me. I could use that free publicity. However, I'd have to register as a Democrat. I've never been registered as either party. Yuck.
Maybe I should run for Senate in Maine. The problem is I have too much self-esteem and self-respect to subject myself to total bats**t crazy groups. Ha!

The Ds are evil. I refuse to join an "only try to be slightly less evil than MAGA" standard party.
Perhaps a better name than Internet then:

1. Monnet: monopoly network
2. Kingnet: monarchy network
3. Capnet: doubles as capture or capitalism network.
4. Stranglenet: it's a trap!

Stranglenet!
The AWS outage puts the lie to capitalism yet again. Capitalism is promoted as merit based competition. The reality is a monopoly consolidation. Computing is consolidating to "the big three". Like oil, cars, telecom, etc. The Internet is no longer a network of interconnecting nodes.
There's a reason the  Dems are not keeping a public running tab of every crime and every criminal of the T gov they intend to prosecute. 

Because they have no such intentions. 

Replace the D party or lose our Democracy.
Had enough? 

You know what's better than a general strike? A permanent replacement. MGOs are fixed size 30 people survival units. Meaning they can survive without government. 

Join an MGO today! And pool resources.

Irreni.social
Traditionally, this is when a country hires mercenaries from foreign countries.
I saw Mills interview with Heather. She is a died in the wool D and will do whatever Schumer says. Not someone to resist. Platner is a D in Nazi tatooes. Let's find real resistance.
No. 20 years and he still has it? Can you say Fetterman?

No. We need to stop looking for heroes and look to replacing the D party.
You know T wanting the DOJ to give him $230 million is a reminder that Congress is the only check on the President. The Republican party is completely owned by T. 

T could drop a nuke within US borders and still the Republican party wouldn't impeach him. 

I just hope its not Maine.
Mmmm, Amazon released a study where like 80% of users  of Alexa typically issue single word commands like "time" and "weather".  Alexa has been around for evah.  But sure.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-22
----------------------------------------

Tech companies offer a fig leaf as ethics cover. 

Nothing real.
You know conservatives are about tradition. You also know that MAGA is fine with what Trump is doing to the Whitehouse. Therefore MAGA is not conservative. MAGA is cult of personality.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=7xxg...
"A government is a body of people notably ungoverned." - Shepherd Book, TV show Firefly.


Season to taste.
Oof. You just know he's going to rename it.

Gold House
Trump House
Palace of Trump
Palace of America
I designed mesh society.

No Kings 
No Capitalism
No Patriatchy
No Bureaucracy 
No Hierarchy

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
Boo!
----------------------------------------
2025-10-21
----------------------------------------


I disagree.

Interesting choice to pose this as if a photograph .  Two posing and one bored waiting in line.

Conservative media headlines

Been reading all my life. Quality since Trump is 3rd rate. Now, it is incoherent. They clearly have no idea how to use ScatGPT. 

Just gibberish now. 

Might be time to give in to being an echo chamber consumer.

I don't understand why anyone still reads the NYT. They full-throated promoting the Bush's wars. I quit then. They hired Bari Weiss. Get a grip.

----------------------------------------
2025-10-20
----------------------------------------

Arrest ICE

www.youtube.com/watch?v=r_eK...







Fun fact. Japan has an annual penis parade. But America has free speech, am I right? 

www.japan.travel/en/spot/362/

"It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness." -Chinese Proverb

We need solutions. I have them. I have all the candles you could ever dream to light. 

Mesh society is what we need.

Irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-10-19
----------------------------------------

No Kings protest over, now what? 

Channel that energy into next generation society: mesh society. 

Join an MGO today! 

No Kings
No Partirarchy
No Capitalism
No Hierarchy

irreni.social
easy for this one, just one-click auto level.
So we are 9 months into this and Obama interrupts his somnolent life to say something. GBO. Get Bent Obama.
Love the hat! Peace out!
Maine peace out!

1. Genetic sequencing is significantly improving accuracy and resolution each year.
2. Genetic sequencing is ahead of current medical science to analyze.

So, is one-and-done a reality? I haven't seen any reporting, but I would say a sequencing of even five years ago might need a do over.
I mean since genetic information is mostly static then one can get sequencing before getting sick. However*, and this is a big however, in 2010 the Obama admin passed a law prohibiting Health Ins. from using genetic info against you. 

*However = Trump lawlessness.
Be all you can be, read! 

nostalgiarama.blogspot.com/2016/01/o-ps...
Peace out, man
DHS press release about fake Mexican Cartel bounties. 

open.substack.com/pub/jennbudd...


Hit "Subscribe" on this moderation list and you get two options: mute or block. 

Block the T regime now on Bluesky.

bsky.app/profile/did:...



Talk is cheap.

It takes a political party to not need a king.
Talk is cheap.

Which raised the awareness of genocide in Gaza: videos on TikTok or protests?

The answer becomes obvious if we remove one. Remove protests: less awareness. Remove reporting on TikTok, awareness gone.
Talk is cheap. Protest over, now what.

Just sit back for a moment and reflect back all the way to the Occupy Wall Street protests. Or the "Not in our name" protests of the War On Terror. 

What did they achieve?
Talk is cheap. Money talks. Both define America today. 

We believe cheap talk that is unproven by action in Mandovi and Platner. We vote for billionaire backed Ds. 

Also, the culture is enamored with talkers we call influencers. 

Get real. Literally.
Talk is cheap. No Kings is safe cheap talk.

Better is a Replacement Democrat Party. Run the D party out of town. Disgrace them and replace them. That would be far superior to the cathartic but empty no Kings messaging.
Talk is cheap.

No Kings. That means party, not heroes like Platner and Mandovi. 

Yet what party are No Kings protesters supporting? The Ds. That feckless, neutered, impotent party unwilling to fight the King. 

How is that suppose to work exactly?
Talk is cheap.

Bernie was always full of s**t. He refused to align with a party. And when put to the test of running 3rd party? He was good friends with that genocidal maniac, Joe Biden. Vote for Joe was always Bernie.
Talk is cheap.

Here's what's bugging  me about Platner and Mandovi. 

What coalition or new party are they building in order to cash the checks that their mouths are writing? Hmm? As far as I know, they aren't joining forces as the two progressives. 

You can't govern without party support.
I noticed yesterday AOC has beat Hakeem Jefferies at...money. AOC is now the top D fund raiser. Sound familiar? 

Talk is cheap. Money talks. Follow the money. I don't mean that literally. Don't follow AOC because she's a cash magnet.
Talk is cheap defines Gavin Newsome. Who the D party does align with. 

AOC and Bernie are all talk as solo actors. They don't build coalitions. They act alone. You can't govern Nationally without a party. To any extent AOC is Pelosi then she's a paper tiger. Pelosi was good at one thing: money.
Talk is cheap.

What is scarier than Halloween regarding Pritsker is that he is all alone. Yes, he's a D, but the party is not aligning with him. Neither are other billionaires. That's scary. One billionaire versus all the rest, and no party support? 

Ooof.
Talk is cheap. 

I will say this about Pritsker: he's a throwback to Jefferson and Washington style politician. A rich man who believes in America willing to fight for an America that he believes in.
Talk is cheap.

I watched Heather's interview with Mills yesterday. Mills is right about one thing: she's tested. You know what you are getting. 

Untested hasn't met billionaire, AIPAC resistance yet.
I don't understand why anyone believes AOC.

AOC was all "Green New Deal" to get elected. That was quickly abandoned for Pelosi's sweet, sweet money. AOC has a 99% voting with Pelosi record. AOC is just celebrity farming her narcissism. Like T.
Talk is cheap.

This is something I've been meaning to say in general that applies to all newcomers like Platner and Mandavi.

Hello, McFly? Fetterman.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-18
----------------------------------------

Thanks

Also, it is obvious they are looking for a fight on No Kings protest day.
terrible political violence rhetoric by these people, no surprise considering Charlie Kirk, the Young Republicans and Trump himself after Kirk's death.
Late next year. A bridge 4 lanes wide. A year.
eugenics, noun: 1. the notion that breeding for all the anti-social traits that ensure human extinction and yet claims to do the opposite. Traits include but not limited to greed, greed, greed, narcissism, greed, greed, violence, greed, inbreeding.
Christopher HItchens mocked Christianity and was invited constantly to debate. He was asked by an audience member to stop mocking Christians. His reply, "I refuse to unilaterally disarm. Christians effectively use bullying and mocking throughout history." 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=cGXE...
“Stupidity is the same as evil if you judge by the results.” 
--Margaret Atwood 

I collect quotes. Today is the first I'm seeing this one. Mmmm

"Politics is the art of looking for trouble, finding it everywhere, diagnosing it incorrectly and applying the wrong remedies."
 -- Groucho Marx







----------------------------------------
2025-10-17
----------------------------------------


Except for me, I have all the solutions(tm). Easy peasy lemon squeezy. 

Join an MGO today! 

irreni.social

"Zionism is the mother lode of bad ideas." - Sam Harris

 Oh wait, he said that about Islam. 

I just watched a video of his and Sam's cognitive dissonance about the dangers of religion being compartmentalized for him resulted in him sane washing himself to himself in real time. Spooky! Boo!
Shhh, I have a secret that is so dangerous it is guaranteed death sentence.

Come closer.

Here it is: nothing is preventing you from direct barter. 

Don't think all-or-nothing. One direct barter trade undermines capitalism 100%. No taxes. No currency.  Nothing. 

Pass it on.

Power to the people.
healthy, noun: 1. Enough is enough.

People who are rich are by definition unhealthy and should be treated accordingly, like child rapists. Enough is enough.
Appeasing and promoting merit as power and privilege got us here. No more.

As Penn Teller stated, I do rape as much as I want, and I want zero. I do extort society as much as I want for my intellectual gifts, zero.
Intellectual property was always an oxymoron. Time is all that needs to be traded. If some stupid Ayn Rand worshipper comes after you, then just tell them F John Galt. If greed is the required motive, then  F off. An hour for an hour.
Computers allow us to 100% track inventory of everything we trade. Currency is a technology of inability to track inventory.

Now we can. 

We go back to direct trade, barter. 

F the bankers and all currency gaming.

This is a proper use of computers.
Irreni dismisses hierarchy, patriarchy, religion, currency, and capitalism outright before we start new social experiments. 

We have the history to ten times over to dismiss all of them.
Hand waving dismissal of generalist responsibilities with the invisible hand of the free market got us here. The rich have zero accountability. Religion is ready-to-wear generalist fashion that fits every size of evil.

That's our current state of affairs.
So the challenge with mesh society and Irreni is not just the mesh society concepts. It requires engaging in generalist expertise. Something neither Academia nor the public has any experience with.
The invisible hand of the free market is superstition, like rain dances. No basis in reality. And yet pretty much the most used of modern generalist ideas. 

That is sad, lazy, pathetic, and quite literally hand waving dismissive. Just don't consider the child porn consequences of the Internet.
Pre-historic generalism, noun: 1. The invisible hand of the free market. 

The difference between superstition and religion is that superstition is piecemeal where religion is all life encompassing.
Economists serve their capitalist masters. They are not generalists. They are 90% mathematicians. They cosplay at human nature experts. Which is why to this day religion, Marxism, Communism and such are the only generalist games in town, archaic and completely wrong.
We are dying because, in part, Academia is siloed.  Academia never, ever considers the general problems. Which is why I, as a generalist, am a lone duck. Barking Irreni on Bluesky. 

Analysis paralysis is our intellectual cause of social death. It is why we cannot respond with science to capitalism.
I remember in the 1990s when Congress first had to grapple with child porn on the Internet. They asked the academics in Computer Science, "what's the plan?" To which they responded, not my field, not my problem.

Same answer they give about AI today. No accountability, no responsibilty.
I'm a generalist. I know a little about a lot. I study hundreds of topics. Academia is drowning in its own ego blood of who has the biggest specialist tallywhacker. 

This "single topic" myopia defines computer products like AI. Social impact be dam*ed.
I tried for decades to engage Academia. Pufft. 

What they don't know you can't tell 'um. 

Ultimately I realized public appeals have a better chance just from sheer numbers. Academia is a small incestuous community that has zero capacity to grapple with a generalist.
Another thing I get is analysis paralysis.

Academia is not going to innovate society. They are burdened with a stasis of history viewed as permanent human nature. Academia cannot and will not kill hierarchy and patriarchy. That would invalidate their life's work. 

Analysis paralysis .
Good news!

 I have all the solutions(tm). Base, acid and pH of 7. H2O. Irreni is a lab. A lab for conducting social experiments. The first step. MGOs are required lab equipment. 

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
I get it. We don't have free will. We are programmed daily. Instant gratification = peak capitalism. Protest is instant gratification brought to you in part by a Coke and a smile. 

We need to overcome instant gratification programming. Click bait. Hard work is the moment, day, week, year, decades.
Irreni is based on decades of research:

1. Culture 
2. Society
3. Gov
4. Human nature
5. Tribes
6. High tech
7. AI

What is No Kings? A 1775 slogan. 

What we obtain too cheap, protests, we esteem too lightly. A far superior 1775 slogan versus No Kings.
We are in a long haul journey. Protest is spleen venting. Protest has no plan. Revolution has no plan. The South had no plan when they ceded. The US Constitution was drawn up years after the war started and we got lucky. Experiment of first trial sucess.
I've been working on Irreni since 1980. Protest is one and done. What outcome is wildest dream expected? Seriously. Not rhetorical. Answer the puny god d**n question. 

Do you really think if T keels things will just snap back to "normal"?

Or Ds will see the light and do their f'ing jobs?
I regularly post:

No denial. Know your enemy.

You also need to know your allies. Instead of protesting, network. Establish connections beyond the day of protest. Print some personal "business" cards. Hand them out. Exchange emails. 

Any plan will need a network. Do that.
I'd have more respect for a "Never Again" rally. Outlaw MAGA like Germany outlawed the Nazi party. Not a plan, but at least concrete action. 

MAGA needs to be dealt with, severely. No Kings is cowardice -- only a focus on T.
We have to grow up. Mature. Be responsible.  Protesting is knee-jerk response, not planning. 

No one is planning. All we have is RABA, Revert America Back Again. Blue MAGA. 

That's delusional. MAGA is not going anywhere.
Mesh society is called Irreni World Scale. 

Irreni, noun: 1. innovation replaces revolution, engineering not ideology.

Mesh is incremental change of social engineering innovation. The opposite of Revolution. Slow and steady
No Kings is not a solution. Deposing T will not depose his billionaire backers.

Revolution without a plan is irresponsible. Ten times more so in a global economy era. 

The global fallout from any radical change in the US economy is why Mesh society dissolves, not revolutionize.
You can't get ahead by staying even. You can't get ahead without a plan. 

Protest and revolution suffer the same problem: no plan.

The US Constitution was not drawn up before the R started. Irresponsible. What were they fighting for?







Democracy died when Raygun took office. It was apparent to many of us. Raygun rigged the election by manipulating hostages. Trump rigged the election by torpedoing Biden's peace deal and immigration reform. 

It's why I started work on Mesh society in 1980. 

irreni.social
And? I have solutions. He doesn't.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-16
----------------------------------------

Oh, and Democrats will still be as feckless as ever. There is another word, one second...

...somnolent. 

Democrats are feckless and somnolent.
Fun fact: I'm no fun at parties. 

For example: Protest over, now what? 

When T shuffles MAGA will still be here. Billionaires will be on the same billionaire destroy Democracy path. 

It's the Engineer in me. I want solutions. Protest has none.

See?
Challenge to get the eyes and the tablecloth. 

"Who stands you up for breakfast?"

Must read:

open.substack.com/pub/jennbudd...
Lawfare on a different order. They are in a race to become too big to fail. If they win the government will bail them out.
Grace Jones mood.
The Internet in the 90s had two cash cows: dating and porn. Expect OpenAI to go big in dating too.
Wow
To whit, people today are grappling with empathy issues of world scale when evolution provides no such capacity, except for the very few. 

We need to focus. 

We need to accept empathy limitations and build society to the limitations.

Mesh society.

Irreni.social
So my debate concluded that the only society that can support Space dreams is one that provides most people with a world view that they can build a functioning need pyramid out of, 100 or so people.
Only a small percentage of humans think and feel at scale. Tribe size empathy is the common case. So give the common person tribe size world view without tribal faults.
In Irreni World Scale mesh design, only 6 of 30 people are working in the world at large. The other 24 are focused on the MGO day-to-day living. Thus enabling a much smaller world view to build their need pyramid out of.
I argued in my debate that studies long showed the simpler cultures likr in South America test as happier because the pyramid is easier to build based upon a much smaller safety need perception. Life as the poor has very localized world view. Easier to build that pyramid.
The fulcrum here is the word privelege. Priorities change based upon class. This requires understanding the pyramid of needs below.
The first thing to wrestle with, as stated in the topic, is that man cannot live by bread alone. We must have dreams. The carrot pulling the proverbial cart. Can we walk and chew Space gum at the same time?

No. Because Space is a dream of privilege. Starving people dream of not starving.
Mmmmm. When I was in college I took on a debate with the topic, "Space travel versus bread". Should we focus on immediate problems before whimsy like going to the moon. What made this interesting is we took the opposite position of how we felt. I defended bread.
Only happy people can produce happy things. This is why I feel strongly about sharing happy art in my timeline as well as promoting mesh society. 

I feel sad about the right. Miserable people  living in squalor. My parents were miserable every day for 80 years. Terrible condition.
Just today so far.
When I was growing up the song,"Color My World" came out by Chicago. I've run with it ever since. My favorite color is all of them. Mmmmm.

You know what doesn't have nations? Mesh society. No hierarchy at all. Because hierarchy = corruption, power and money at the top. 

Irreni.social
I prefer, "Cursed squirrel. Where'd you go."

This was a challenge to color level.





The shutdown is total nonsense. The expiration of the ACA funding was known the day the law was passed during the Biden years. They could've negotiated a renewal any time during this year. Instead, they waited.

Not impressed.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-15
----------------------------------------

I live in Maine. Mills has been a stay-the-course governor, a huge improvement over her MAGA predecessor. Followed the CDC for the pandemic.

Terrible on healthcare, as in didn't do anything. 

Also, this is about Establishment Dems p*ssing on progressives. 

FU Mills.


Establishment in a full court press against Progressive candidates. Like usual.

Saving the world  defines Blue MAGA. LIke with Red MAGA, what save point are you referring too? Occasionally we hear Blue MAGA exclaim it will take generations to rebuild what Trump destroyed. Just a hint that perhaps there is no save point. 

We need to build specifically for the 21st Century.
Go Jira!
This is why I use a very simple definition of fascism.

fascism, noun: 1. Authoritarianism that combines State, religious and corporate power to rule.

We are fighting State, religion, and billionaires.
We are not just fighting fascism. We are fighting religion.

Christopher Hitchens pointed this out about WWII as well. Every German soldier had a puny god's approval stamped on their belt buckle. 

Despite all the protestations that Hilter was atheist, Christianity was used to wage WWII.
Religion has always been morally bankrupt, vacuous, and evil in moral application. Religion uses its written doctrine as a shield to protect unspeakable evils. Like Gaza. Like Iraq. Who I remind people literally had nothing to do with 9/11.
MAGA Christians daily are boo hooing Christian persecution and killings in other countries, all the while calling any Christian who is a Democrat not a Christian. Furthermore, as Pam Bondi and others have stated publicly, they intend to kill they label terrorist.
Religion is privelege. Insiders are the privileged. According to MAGA, one can't be both a Democrat and a Christain. This is proclaimed daily on conservative media websites. This will justify killing left Christians in MAGA Christian theology. 

Pure tribalism.
It is also worth pointing out that morality is always, always a privilege with religion. Torture, stealing, and killing are all allowed once "war" starts. This is why Trump wants to classify protesters as terrorists. Once war is established, no more morality.
Religious people for religious motives were killing on both sides of 9/11 and 10/6. They are Holy Wars. 

Religion kills.

Down with religion.
1. 9/11 3,000 people killed, US response in the first year alone killed 600,000 Iraqis according to a Lancet study.
2. 10/6 1300 people killed, I*raeli response killed 300,000 so far.
The 20 hostages being released reminds me of 9/11 and the US response. In both cases the killing response was orders of magnitude higher death toll than the crime. And against people who had no knowledge, let alone approval of the crime.


No denial. Know your enemy.

The inherent problem with tech is that its culture is detached from the rest of society. At least Teller anguished about the A bomb. This is why sci-fi as a genre was invented, to anguish about things like AI. 

Tech seeing itself as isolated from the rest of the world is killing us.





----------------------------------------
2025-10-14
----------------------------------------


No nonsense.
True story about learning security through obscurity.

In grad school we were given the assignment to crack Visas encryption protocol. A student broke it overnight. 

Profs lesson, better encryption incurred higher costs than the 4% loss of ongoing infiltrations.
Pattern matching is the input, simulating the future is the output. How good your pattern matching system is determines the quality of your output, including the output unknown. Unknown, something humans ignore by nature and the religious exploit with malice of forethought.

White washing the Pope has never ended well.
Just a reminder that Ceasar was stabbed and killed  by all the Senators. Just focusing on one or the last, Trump, won't help with what comes next.
Police states then must must be highly scripted with exact outcomes to be managed, no freedom. 

Drones. Dystopia. 1984.
This is the fundamental problem with simulation. Action is real time, analysis of action takes much longer. This disparity negates simulation unless a system is rigged to mostly produce constant action of previous simulation prediction, thus requiring 0 analysis.
Imagine all the computing power in the world is measured as creating data and analyzing data. Further 50% is allocated to each. The 50% creation power overwhelms the 50% analysis, by a lot. This is for the same reason that a legal system takes years to prosecute a murder that happened in seconds.
If you want to ponder scale as applied to human nature, then the rock you didn't know you need to turn over is...

...simulation.
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm). My neurdivergent fixation is thinking about problems at large scales, universe scales.

Irreni.social
Both things can be true. The US is under assault under multiple fronts. Trump is the worst
Currency doesn't scale to high transaction rates, high turnover, because it is legally unmanageable by a justice system with a throughput of a crime taking years to prosecute, or even arbitration for that matter. 

Tech made justice obsolete.
Jenn Budd pointed out that only 4% of shipping containers are inspected. This is how fentynol is smuggled into this country, not humans across the border. 

This is security through obscurity. 4% inspections make the 96% obscured and safe to use.
Trump is practicing security through obscurity. Criming can happen at orders of magnitude faster than any justice system can prosecute. Trump is creating thousands of crimes per day that can never be prosecuted ever given the throughput of the legal system.
Blockchain can't set volume thresholds like the ACH. Every transaction must be recorded, ie the word chain.

Security through obscurity is a heavily relied upon security practice. Blockchain is security through obscurity.
The US Automated Clearing House, the ACH,  mitigates volume by setting a minimum threshold of $10,000 for its ledger. 

Although given how many trillions the Fed injected, this needs to be updated to $100,000.
Blockchain doesn't scale:

1. It adapts and records trillions of transactions daily, thus becoming useless, or
2. It doesnt adapt and becomes useless.
One of the reasons I brought up turnover rate is that blockchain, the public ledger foundation of crypto, is very slow turnover rate. There is much discussion about this and how to solve it. The easiest solution will be to simply replace it with fiat currency.
Join an MGO.

Today.

Irreni.social
So here I am, educating you. We are at a much bigger crossroads than Trump. The next Democrat can't fix the unfixable.
In some respects, the smartest people and our current Congress are equivalent. An unsolveavle problem is equally undolveable to both. Chaos is assured. Except that smart people not corrupted would point out the system is irreparably broken and needs replaced, needs mesh society of barter only.
Trillions of dollars changing hands multiple times per day that legally must declare ownership for taxes is where we are at. Nobody understands this. Banks take overnight deposits and invest overnight and make billions, overnight.

Can you?
Currency is slow tech. In a fast tech society currency loses all sense of value. 

This is why mesh society is direct barter only. Real goods exchanged in slow time. Currency is now just a gaming system. You aren't tech enough to play.
1,000 people reporting the same dollar possession to the IRS on a single day? That's madness! That's turnover rate. It is not just having billions in wealth. It is also transacting that at the speed of light. This problem is ridiculous. Impossible to model or predict.
Consider an economy where a dollar takes a day to change hands. Now consider an economy where in a single day, 1,000 different people briefly own that dollar and report it to the IRS.
People do not consider turnover rate. 

Before computers, money changed hands literally and slowly. 

Today, Wall Street trades on a fiber optic cable speed rate.

This turnover concept was presented to Congress in the 90s, causing one Senator to exclaim, "Nobody can understand a trillion dollars."

As Toeffler said, we need to learn lessons of historical government scale, unlearn Democracy as unable to globally scale, and then relearn mesh society as governing at scale: Irreni World Scale.

Irreni.social
It is a common axiom that when power concentrates too heavily, then it is time to decentralize. It is time to federate. Mesh society is the last federation needed. The MGO as the only sovereign is fixed size 30 people. The only other power is projects of a maximum duration of five years.
The Fed lowering interest rates to 0%is not interest. It is free money. They hung a sign on the door saying. "Going out of business."
The US central bank was not set up as a world central bank. Yet the world is tied to the US dollar. The Fed bank doesn't scale to the world. So it died. Its control is neutered.
Too big to fail is a direct outcome of globalization. Too big to fail doesn't just harm a single nation. It harms the world. I mean, what could Obama do, continue the collapse of the world economy in 2008?
So it is not just Democracy dying. It is Demcracy being overwhelmed with too big to fail. Voting won't fix this.
What we are seeing with too big to fail products, companies and markets is the rise of extra-national power. And unlike the banking conspiracy theories of the 70s secretly running the world, these are in your face, to the moon, unavoidable powers.
AI is not just a labor replacement and wage suppressor. It is also a too big to fail product that will control governments, not the other way around.
What Obama, Tim Geitner, Larry Summers and the Fed did in 2009 is destroy democracy by inventing too big to fail. They destroyed democracy. We are not just collapsing because of Trump fascism. We are also collapsing because the US ceded financial sovereignty. The Fed is beholden to too big to fail.
Today, that same expression goes like this, "Lose big money that harms the public noticeably and you're in trouble. Lose too big to fail money that harms the public, and then the government is in trouble and bails you out."

Crypto and AI are too big to fail products.
In the 70s we had a saying, "Borrow a $100,000 from the bank and don't pay it back then you're in trouble. Borrow $100,000,000 from the bank and not pay it back and then the banks in trouble."
Blockchain has always been a ruse. A con. Like AI today, it is a too big to fail product. Establish the product rapidly as too big to fail, and then governments have no choice but to support the product.
Black markets are for for criminals. Crypto is for criminals. No person has ever been prosecuted with public ledger, blockchain evidence.  Other than petty thieves. FTX didn't collapse due to public evidence found in blockchain ledgers. It was just plain fraud.
Crypto is not new. The concept is as ancient as time itself. It is called a black market, or gray market. These markets threaten  nations by avoiding taxes. If we lived in normal times crypto would've been squashed for not paying taxes.
Looking at this chart below, one company owns $200 Billion alone. It is not just crypto valued at trillions, but one coin, Bitcoin. All of this value only, key word being only, exists because billionaires staked it with 0% billions from the Fed. To whit, the Fed committed suicide.
Crypto, or more importantly Bitcoin, will be taken off the encryption standard. Too much electricity is needlessly used. Like the gold standard, a zero sum game won't do. They can't  create enough to go around. Gold and Bitcoin are limited supply.
Crypto was staked with billions of dollars. The billionaires wanted a new central bank to counter the Fed bank.

The blockchain encryption is the con. Once crypto gets a certain level of legitimacy, then they will remove the blockchain standard, ala the gold standard once backing the dollar.
This $6.6 trillion is not the worst part. The FTX bankruptcy of 10s of billions was widely reported. What was not was that crypto in 2022 was already a trillion dollar market.

This is why crypto easily survived the crash.

----------------------------------------
2025-10-13
----------------------------------------

The Fed nullified itself by injecting untold trillions into the world economy with 0% interest and quantitative easing. Now the rich can counter the Fed. All during the Obama years. Thanks Obama. Thanks for destroying this country.
Conservative media headlines

Dozens of these stories in my feed here daily. However if one only consumes conservative media they don't know, there is no reporting on ICE terror at all. Just the occasional piece when ICE grabs an actual criminal.
Mesh society now.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Had enough? Good news, mesh society is prepacked and ready to go.

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
YouTube blatantly promoting deep fake technology. AI is going to create reality for people that is 'Wizard of Oz' level. It is kinda telling that one of the first meme movies was about fake reality, AI.
Season to taste. 

Tiffany of Tiffany & Co. had the last word on fashion. "There is no such thing as bad taste. There is taste and no taste." - Tiffany

I have both. :)
Season to taste. The Great Pumpkin is coming!
Season to taste. The king of memes.
Season to taste.
Season to taste.
Season to taste.
Never got into comic books, but comic strips kept me sane. Now I just live with insane. :)
I quit going to video sharing web sites because the noise to bandwidth ratio is horrible. But occasionally one could find some real bangers. Are we still using that word bangers? hmmmm.
This country is taking its sweet a** time claiming its Darwin Award. :)
Glory!
LOL. Okay, I have to admit. This took me a second. +10 points.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-12
----------------------------------------

Bert Stern is a great, hearty name. Maybe go with Bee Port for my next NPC.
I want to enter my feed into some art decoration showcase.
This dates back to when this country was founded.
Here's the thing. If you google "pedophile priest" a new one comes up every day. This white washing of white priests because one got shot in the head with a pepper spray bullet is truly cognitive dissonance. 

Priests are the pedophile enemy. They are Trump.

No denial. Know your enemy.


"yup, a right-wing Trump fan. Very strange choice by the Nobel committee."

Great show by Kyle.

youtu.be/17_vyIJzz3w?...
So MAGA loves guns. Lots of guns. They fantasize about civil war and have as long as I've  been reading conservative media. 

T is tired of trying to get leftists to shoot. Now he is inciting MAGA. Easier target. It won't matter after martial law is declared because he doesn't need MAGA.
Pro-tip: if you wanna know why the rich are so paranoid about an equivalent French "Reign of Terror" in America is they know they destroyed America. What happened financially in 2009 is right there. 

So, NO PUBLIC VIOLENCE.

Good news, and you know what's coming, I have all the solutions(tm). Irreni World Scale is a world, Solar system, Milky Way, and Universe solution.

You just need to join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
To whit, America's problems are not just internal. Whatever we do will impact the world. No one is talking about that when talking fixing  American politics. We have to solve for the entire world, not just our borders.
The irony of Trump equating Antifa with anarchists is that the billionaires T answers to are the anarchists.
Globalism has become no world order as opposed to the one world order nightmare predicted. The rich just need gated communities of total control. The world can burn otherwise. And it is.
For example, Manifest Destiny, what I*rael is enacting in Gaza, was a shared trust by the rich and public. Slavery was not. Call it an American identity. Or America First if you want to be a Nazi. 

The American rich don't give two s*its about America. Just money. Money unfettered by nations.
One of the many hidden assumptions of Democracy, or hidden faiths if you will, is the trust of the rich and the public trust need be aligned, even as party platforms oppose.
The billionaires are untouchable. Any move the Fed makes can be counteracted. This nullifies the Fed. 

We are in a Kobiashi Maru, a test of character.
The irony is Obama destroyed America. He did so by crying wolf that the US would collapse and completely fail if not for injecting trillions. The trillions have nullified the Fed, boxed them in and now America is dead. F Obama, Tim Geitner and Larry Summers.
The challenge is the trillions of dollars given to the rich after 2009. Free money. 0% interest. Quantitative easing, printing digital money. The rich are now more financially  influential than the Federal Bank. The Fed injected too much money.
If we want to bring back Democracy and democracy we need to rebuild public trust. Everything else depends on public trust. It is the foundation of public governance.
The history of the conservative movement after WWII is they completely succeeded in replacing all public trust with just one axiom: greed is good. 

Fin
We know what to do. That's the truly sad part. We already succeeded. But greed won out. Profit motive for all things is our only  public trust now: lock, stock and barrel.
The root cause of failed news is failed public trust. The root cause of failed public trust is public trust requires vigilance that we deliberately built prior to 1980 and then subsequently committed democracy suicide by throwing that vigilance in the trash.
A cynic untethered from "I don't know" is your worst nightmare. 

As an atheist we call this "I don't know" false knowledge "god of the gaps". 

Without public trust this gap becomes Qanon of the gaps, conspiracy theories. Homeopathy of the gaps. Crypto of the money gaps. Bottomless grifting.
The US and the World has become cynical and lost any semblance of public trust. That's terrible. A responsible free-thinker is truth bound. We are also "I don't know" bound,  never claiming the unknown as truth. The public as cynics is not.
Fairness. The Fairness doctrine was a weak-tea attempt to regulate echo chambers. Yes, we knew about echo chambers 100 years ago. We did something about it and required both parties always be represented in news. Duh.  That's not rocket science, just common sense.
The problem is not social media. News failed a century ago. We called it Yellow Journalism. We put in place regulations. We removed the regulations in the 80s. Rinse and repeat.
We've all become cynics where "both sides" means there is no truth. No truth, no public trust. No public trust means no vaccines.
I'm a cynic by nature born a free-thinker cynic. But that shouldn't be the norm. We need public trust. Lying about news like Portland being war ravaged  is now allowed. We could stop it. Bring back the 3rd Class FCC license. Every public broadcaster, i.e. influencer, has to have one. Regulate lying.
Again we've been down this road before with lying and news: Yellow Journalism. 

Trump lying 100% about war ravaged Portland and that being reported as news is why lying was regulated. The President can lie, you can't.
Given there is still content overlap between broadcast and online news companies like Fox News then Fox needs to make it clear what's opinion and what's "reporting".  Fox owns a ton of local affiliates.
You wanna know why everything news is labeled, "opinion"? Because 2nd class FCC licenses are still required for broadcast. If some event like a fire or shooting is lied about on air then 2nd class licenses can still be revoked. Opinion pieces can lie all day.
My grandma lived alone and had talk radio on for company always. It seemed like every other caller was threatening to rat hosts out that they disagreed with for lying. Think anti-amvaxxers.
Lying. Prior to 1981 one had to have a 3rd Class FCC license to use the microphone on air. I went to Chicago to get mine. This license could be revoked. A test about  on-air behavior was given. If one lied on the air your license could be revoked.
If we want to increase the quality of news then we need to regulate news to be  non-entertainment, again.
We have regressed to Yellow Journalism. We learned about the evils of the Hearst dynasty of news, then regulated it, and and then deregulated news.

Sadly. This was all so predictable because it already happened.
Have you ever asked yourself why NPR and PBS were started as non-profits? Because Yellow Journalism that sparked the non-entertaiment regulation was still a recent memory in the 60s.
Further the news cabal maintained the regulations as tradition and corporate policy well into the 2000s. Most notably "The McNeil Leher News Hour" on PBS.
First, remember radio, newspaper, and TV news were tightly coupled to cut costs. Deregulation of radio essentially deregulated the others.
Buried in all the deregulation of news in the 1980s were three key pieces of regulation  missing today that killed news:
1. non-entertainmaint 
2. Lying
3. Fairness
This cabal of news sources didn't convert to entertainment news in 1981 when that provision was removed for radio broadcasting. Back then radio was still prime market and further more news was the same in print, on radio, and on TV as news divisions lost money being non-entertainment.
The big three ABC, CBS, and NBC were in cohoots with the big news agencies: Associated Press, Reuters, etc. Local news programming greatly relied on these for all national and world news.
Next to the Fairness Doctrine,  the non-entertainment programming aspect was the most public talked about aspect. It was called non-profit news by its capitalist pigs detractors.
Historically reporting on the gestalt of this deregulation was to just use Fairness Doctrine. My usage of it reflects the reporting at that time in the 80s.
There is much uninformed analysis here about mainstream news failing. Starting in 1981 the FCC deregulated a ton broadcast regulations:
1. Fairness doctrine
2. Non-entertainment doctrine 
3. Format doctrine
minds.wisconsin.edu/handle/1793/...
 (93%) of respondents “disagreed” (combined “strongly disagreed” and “disagreed”) that “deregulation [of non-entertainment news] will diminish or reduce the amount and type of information available to the public.” 
minds.wisconsin.edu/handle/1793/...
----------------------------------------
2025-10-11
----------------------------------------

Whaaaa? 

Well, I guess ICE will raid it so there's that.
I remember after the cold war ended when the Berlin Wall came down move critics were asking who the James Bond movies, and Hollywood in general, vilify as arch-villains.

We never stopped to ask about DC. In less than two years we invaded Iraq. Now its immigrants.
@jennbudd.bsky.social America needs an enemy. Interesting take on why T stopped illegal immigration 100%, Ts words, without building the wall. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=DDUI...
This was written by AI. Check out the colon usage. People should disclose AI.


It is a challenge to follow fashion because like most fashion magazines the feeds are mostly brand ads. I don't do ads.
Also a reminder I'm a very happy neurodivergent. As Paula Poundstone quipped, "My life's dream was to be a waitress at the Waffle house and I made that happen." Except for me it was living alone. Yeah. Although I do love my work, software.
Just a reminder, if you follow beauty it follows you back. I only repost partially my timeline. I wake up to beauty.
I should post more fashion. Love it.
Gas lighting, noun: 1. Whatever this is.

Like Obama's post earlier, he knows I*rael has welched on every deal. 

This is true gas lighting. When I*rael breaks it what is Pete going to do? "Why, who would've thought?' No. He'll blame the Palestinians. AIPAC stooges all.
In Ts executive orders, first sentence he called antifa anarchists. In addition one of his cronies linked anarchistnews.org as the antifa web site. Bait and switch.
Well done Nobel committee, well done. Don't normally approve of dragging unless it's me or Mark Twain. Top Shelf.
So CBS News is down from 4.7m to 3.5m viewers just this year. People are tired of mainstream media lying to them or manipulating them ignoring news like Gaza. 

If the new leadership is staying the course they will continue to lose audience. 

ustvdb.com/networks/cbs...
I finally got AI to answer the question. The response is chilling.

Q: What percentage of Fox Viewers watch CBS News?

A: There is no publicly available data specifying  percentage of Fox News viewers who watch CBS News. Overlap between networks is not disclosed by ratings agencies like Nielsen.
cognitive dissonance, noun: 1. People who believe "The Free Press" run by Bari Weiss has an actual liberal audience.  Hence Weiss can attract a liberal audience on CBS News. 

Pro tip: Aiming all your powder at liberal targets doesn't engender a liberal audience.
Education: use of force escalation policies. A free article on use of force violations of force escalation policies.
Suggestion: use the word gift to get more exposure. There are trackers here people use for gift articles on paywalled accounts.
Liberals can't replicate Limbaugh or Rogan. CBS might replicate Fox because they are now MAGA, just like AM Hate radio is MAGA or Christian preaching.

Liberals tried to compete with AM Hate Radio with  Air America in the mid 2000s and quickly failed.

MAGA CBS will fail at being liberals.
Israel has broken every deal with Palestine. Obama knows this. Yes I'm a hardcore cynic but this is cynical based upon all the facts.
It will be interesting to see if David Ellison has any interest in increasing CBS viewership. He is a billionaire capitalist. If he does then my money is on tacking towards replicating Fox News. 1. because it is proven, 2. because it is cheap and 3. mainstream media is dying, losing viewers.
One of two things is true:
1. CBS viewers mostly watch Fox News
2. or don't.

As CBS becomes Fox News I think in both cases CBS News will lose viewership. If CBS viewers don't watch they will leave  because it's Fox. If they do watch they will leave because redundancy.
I'm asking AI the following question:

"What percentage of Fox News viewers watch CBS?"

So far all I'm getting is Fox News beats CBS not the overlap.

It would be interesting to track over the next few months what that is now versus the future.
Ha! ha! A good characterization of AI. Trying to use the bing.com Co-pilot: Network Protocol error. Page doesn't display.
Conservative media headlines:

- Bari Weiss is a liberal
- CBS will now be "just the facts" liberal
- Bari is going after 60 minutes

I believe that last one. ChatGPT must have figured out the CBS going MAGA will eat into Fox New's lunch and is reassuring Murdoch, nuht hunh.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-10
----------------------------------------

No one knows who he is. 

They'll just think it is some reference to a Star Trek love child.
Happy Thursday! Ads are out of control. Added these words to the block list:

Prime Day
Amazon Prime
I already paid on Substack?
I'm reminded multiple times every day that I'm neurodivergent.

Normies use Substack. The UI drives me crazy. Especially on dark mode, which they obviously don't test, because I have light sensitives. 

Hopefully I get emailed the news letter so I don't have to visit that atrocious UI.

:)
@jennbudd.bsky.social I subscribed to Substack:

substack.com/@jennbudd

You should too. Well, unless you are me. I briefly joined Substack when it first came out. Worst UI/UX ever. This is my 2nd time. Even worse UI/UX: 5 upsells just joining and 4 upsells subscribing. Atrocious. 

Support Jenn.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-09
----------------------------------------


Conservatives are not America, maybe about 1/3. Media saturation is going to be a problem. Especially for political news. Is CBS competing with Fox News? 

Conservatives aren't funny, the aren't entertaining, they are just anger and hate. You can only saturate the market so much with that.
The thing about conservative media is they have one lane: own the libs. Hate. 

Otherwise their content is garbage. Bari Weiss is a bad writer. I've been reading conservative media my entire life and its just bad. The National Review tried to put some polish, but the writers were just boring.
The whole Bari Weiss thing is more shadow boxing over hallucinations. Matt Taibi and others have been "center" or "left" when taking conservative money just for criticizing the left for years now. Same with Glen Greenwald. They then go on Fox News or other conservative sites as the "liberal".
Conservative media headlines

Today they are saying that the takeover of CBS by David Ellison is "center". Ellison is a hardcore Trump and Israel supporter. I'd hate to know what right means to them.

This is inline though with them saying they are America now instead of conservative.
Maybe its just me being neurodivergent, but what's up with the conservatives constantly trying to red pill Taylor Swift for years now?
AI companies taking queues from banks in 2008 and making too big to fail arguments.
Linkedin defined:
@jennbudd.bsky.social
Seriously, we require teachers to be certified and licensed. We should demand the same for elected officials and for the same reasons.
They have professional juries in the UK. We should set up elected official academies like West Point and demand professional elected officials. Preferably graduate level.
And for the love of all humanity, if we ever get to re-nationalizing can we please put skill, education and other merit requirements on all elected officials? No more morons.
You'd still need a new meta organization to manage the meta constitution. A United States of Nations. One task, re-nationalization laws.
The starting point to fixing the US is a new meta constitution that limits size to 10 million and splits the US into 30 countries. 

10 million is used because the highest functioning Democracies today are on the order of 10 million people.

This is how to scale Democracy. Split at 10 million.
When the US gets to 435 million population then each representative will rep 1 million people. Complete absurdity. 

If we went back to 30k per representative with 300 million people, then that's 10k reps. Complete absurdity.

No one body can rep 300 million.
So join an MGO today and support Democracy. 

Irreni.social
Since mesh nodes require the least external resources possible, then they put the least demands on hierarchy possible, thus supporting hierarchy. And eventually making a hierarchy obsolete.
Good news, mesh society is designed and ready to go.

Even better news, mesh society supports democracy. The more mesh society is adopted, the better hierarchy functions.

Mesh nodes are self-sustaining, survival units of the smallest external dependency possible.
We need mesh society. Mesh society is designed to scale infinitely in time and space. Democracy built on hierarchy is not. 

Irreni.social
Rewriting the US Condtituon won't fix things, and not just because we elect morons. Hierarchy doesn't scale. At some level of scale people become invisible and the hierarchy only functions for a small set. 

We are fighting for lifeboat seats.
Waj is on point saying greed and racism are America's two evils it won't give up. But they are not the root cause of the collapse of the US. Failure to scale is. Our human network systems don't function at our level of population size and financial size.
Bluesky is going to fail because hierarchy doesn't scale. It will devolve into another faceless corporation at a certain level of financial concentration of power and money at the top. They all do.
We occasionally talk about scale by eliminating the Electorial College. But the scientific rigor put into that scale design is the same as deciding 435 reps: none.
We have acknowledged scale once at the Constituional level. We changed representation from 1 rep per 30k to 435 reps fixed. Why? Some lofty scale design? No. The building in DC only holds 435.
The US economy went viral after WWII. We became the richest country quickly. Our political systems couldn't handle the viral growth scale. Even worse, we didn't even acknowledge scale as a concept to be managed. Perhaps even an entire rewrite of the Constituion was needed. We'll never know.
Netscape was the most prominent early viral Web company  scale failure. A retrospective of its failure noted that a company's culture can't sustain rapid growth that doubles head count in a few months. The company literally falls apart from within.
Silicon Valley has a mocking analysis of scale failure: your success becomes your failure. 

This just means you went viral and your systems can't handle the scale of rapid growth. This scale  applies both to the product and the company.
In theory we have really weak tea anti-trust laws to break up dysfunctional monopolies. But they are rarely used. Microsoft wasn't broken up in the late 90s.
We have a few moments of awareness of scale in society. We all know large companies can't innovate, too repressive. So we need start ups. Large companies destroy competitors and reduce competition.
Hierarchy doesn't scale. Democracy is hierarchy. It doesn't scale. Corruption prevails because increasing amounts of money and power are focused on the same small number, or even just 1, at the top.
Humans are weird. When it comes to computer networks we know what works at 10 needs new design at 100. Yet with human networks we scale from 10 million to 100 million and don't even have scale conversations. Scale is not thought about at all .
What's happening to Bluesky is a time-lapse of US history. 

Scale.

The US Constitution doesn't scale to 300 million. Bluesky is cracking under scale pressure.
Curious, this looks like Substack. Where does Substack fall on the Bluesky -> S*itter  crap comment scale? (Can't use Substack, UI triggers me)
Just on betraying Unions alone I refused to register D in 1980 and have been non-partisan ever since. 

The Blue wave, vote Blue no matter who campaigns were insufferable.
My challenge is this: find me one example where cynicism has created a world threat the way the End-times defeatist conservatives are supporting Israel and don't care about climate change because Jesus is coming. 

Christians are for more nihilistic in an organized fashion than cynics and atheists.
End-times Christian Nationalists are a real threat to this world. They are supporting Israel for one reason: to bring about the end times.

The defeatist attitude permeates the entire Conservative ethos with respect to climate. Do nothing, its meaningless. End Times.
A defeatist is a better take. Christians who are end-times Christians are defeatists. They don't do anything about climate change or anything long term because the end is coming soon. Jehovah Witnesses don't go to college for this reason.
Your first sentence indicates that you don't engage with Christian apologists. Replace cynicism with atheism and that's what Christian apologists say about atheists. Without god then morals are mere whimsy, atheists are never wrong.

Neither cynicism or atheism are by default nihilistic.
I need to set up something for Irreni. This Open Collective looks interesting. Never been a fan of kickstarter, gofundme, patreon, etc. Open Collective takes no cut for incoming and outgoing payments. 

opencollective.com/pricing
"this would be the first time government-funded software had been released under an open source license."

Nitpick here,  but University software released under MIT and Berkeley licenses have been around since the 80s. Arpanet was military initially. 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARPANET
----------------------------------------
2025-10-08
----------------------------------------

As a rich person Washington had a terrible time getting the poor to fight the rich man's war, even getting paid. Eventually desertions got so bad he instituted the death penalty by hanging for deserters. He personally attended.

I'm wondering how long before ICE does something similar.
Good news! I have all the solutions(tm). 

It is called Mesh society, Irreni World Scale. 

Join and MGO today!
irreni.social
The rich abandoning the American experiment and selling off pieces for personal wealth is going to destroy this country. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
The difference between the rich of 1789 and today as demonstrated by Manifest Destiny and the Cold War, the rich believed in America as a concept. No more. Now they don't care about this country, at all. They are globalists who can easily move anywhere in the world. 

Or just by city yachts.
The American revolution was started by the rich and fought by the poor. 

Today's oppression was started by the rich and fought by the poor, but against its own citizens.
In another sense US history is just class warfare, the rich versus the poor. America has always been defined by trade, even before capitalism. Trade was a rich persons game, not for the farmer and laborer who created the crops and products. 

The Gilded Age, the Robber Barons, the Railroad Tycoons.
US History in some sense can be boiled down to Hamilton won, Jefferson lost. The North won, the South lost. So much so that the South has thrown in the towel on weak central government and has decided if you can't beat them, join them, and wants to be the central government.
In 1789 Hamilton was the North and wanted a Monarchy Republic and strong government. Jefferson was the freedom loving State's rights, weak government faction.

The central advocates wanted debt assumption and a US Bank day one.  The State's rights advocates fought both tooth and nail.

And lost.
True MAGA would be undoing everything that has made the Federal government one State and all powerful into a weak central government. 

That can't happen. Our society is now one-State dependent. One-State designed by existing law.
Conservatives that are anarchists, libertarians, and State's rights fantasy advocates are all missing the point: a weak Federal government. A UN type Federal government. 

Here's the thing. Now that we have a one-State, all-powerful Federal government it will never, ever cede power. Not ever.
The US Constitution was intended to create a  permanent weak Federal government. We don't have that any more. It is therefore logical that a Constitution designed for a weak Federal government doesn't work for a single State, all-powerful Federal Government.
The original 13 Colonies wanted the Federal government to resemble what we think of as the UN today.

That is to say that,  yes, the UN can make law, but that law can be easily ignored by the States with impunity. The Federal government served at the whims of the States, not the other way around.
For example, the notion by MAGA to establish English as the official US language would have been unthinkable in 1789. This kind of Federal control of States was what the Revolution was supposed to end. States were supposed to be autonomous.
It is trivial to argue that there is only one State in the US, the Federal State. All the checks and balances between the States and Feds have been obliterated by money. The Feds tax US citizens more than their own States. 

This tax money nullifies all State distinctions.
I could go on about the myriad of spirit ideas intended in the original Constitution that aren't in our culture today. The first amendment was viewed as protecting States rights to have a State church. Applying the Bill of Rights to all States wasn't established until the 13th and 14th amendment.
I've read many books about the America's founding. Colonies were paranoid to an extreme and fearful of establishing a strong central government, especially the Southern States worried about the Northern States. 

This is why the 2nd amendment exists, not personal defense.
The US Constitution isn't worth the paper it is written on once people abandon its spirit. The same is true for all laws derived thereof.

The spirit of the 2nd amendment was States should be able to resist the Feds. That spirit doesn't exist anymore. Now Trump has weaponized the National Guard.
Should we bring back the Fairness Doctrine? 

No. 

The spirit of the law is just as important as the letter of the law, as we are seeing play out in real time.

Americans don't believe in the spirit of the Fairness Doctrine today.

You can't MAGA the Fairness Doctrine.
Don't be intimidated by the nitpickers. Don't be intimidated about misremembering things. 

As someone who is neurodivergent I'm aware that some people get overly obsessive and demand 100% accuracy. That's okay. They can speak their piece and you can ignore them.

It's okay to just block them.
None other than Rush Limbaugh was complaining loudly that not being able to lie on the air was stifling him.  As soon as the Fairness Doctrine fell he set up his lying shop.

My point is though that news consumers are not historians and journalists. But we can and should share our experiences.
One can rightly criticize journalist's reporting for being sloppy and not connecting the dots. But the public doesn't want the dots. They just want the results. 

When the Fairness doctrine fell as a domino it knocked over other dominoes that blocked news for profit and lying on the air.
I followed the news closely in the late 80s when all the deregulation happened. News articles don't get into the weeds. The just state things like, "news for profit will be permitted" and "lying to the public will now be okay" if the Fairness Doctrine falls.
We are not journalists. 

I've occasionally had people get in my replies about the Fairness Doctrine
1:  not prohibiting lying or you lose your 3ed class FCC license
2: not prohibiting profit for news.

What's left out of are the dotted lines: court decisions, subsequent legislation and so on.
D**n, I'm not a Veteran so I can't go there, but otherwise he speaks for me. ICE are traitors.
Kristi Noem pouting in Chi town because:

Kristi in charge:
1. ICE
2. ICE + police
3. ICE + police + FBI 

But Kristi not in charge:
1. Military involved. 

Also, she got spanked shaking down Red States for FEMA money. Not happy with DeSantis.
Kristi Noem being in Chicago is not some show of bravery.

Mobsters only trust in-person communications. 

There is infighting in DC.
We are at the, "Badges, badges? We don't have to show you any stinking badges!" timeline of lawlessness.

m.youtube.com/watch?v=Vqom...
We have moved well beyond echo chambers.

We are now in islands of no trust with insurmountable walls of distrust.

Society cannot function with zero trust. 

That's human nature.
Guess it is worth pointing out not only can't we trust a single word of the Trump admin and conservative media, we can't trust red State government, law enforcement, etc.
Conservative media headlines.

MAGA South Carolina government is not blaming MAGA for blowing up a judges' house; so nanner, nanner, nanner -- we win.
Get busy living or lay down and die.

I chose living.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Mesh society requires cultural change that will take hundreds of years to happen. In the meantime, we need to support Democracy using mesh society ideas. 

The National Ballot Measure Amendment is mesh society ideas.
The end-times-are-nigh defines all religions. They are corect about end times  in that end times are the logical outcome of systems that do not scale. 

We do not want end times. We do not want religion. We do not want hierarchy.
Life needs to survive indefinitely, infinitely if possible. 

This means expanding to fill the Solar system, the Milkyway, and the Universe. 

This requires mesh society, not hierarchy.
All hierarchy fails to scale because hierarchy demands everyone comply with the ideals of the very few or the one. This is anti-human, anti-life, and anti-survival.
Humans will never agree on ideals. So, the ideals must expire almost immediately. There must be infinite possibilities of them of any group size. 

This is how to manage opposing morals and priorities as populations grow.
Mesh society scales infinitely in time and space because it is a system of mechanics for  social ideas called projects. The projects as ideals are proven successful with expected results in the project contracts. They are short-lived, five years. Then, they must be renewed with new expected results.
One of the many horrendous flaws of the US Consitution is that is an ideology, like with rights, and not mechanics for idea experiments.

Ideologies break, not bend. Ideologies are holistic.  All or nothing.

Checks and balances to maintain the ideals of the ideology.
Mesh society is a lab. A lab for social experiments. Ideas are the lab equipment. Lab equipment that can be replaced, discarded, or improved as distinct pieces. This is anti-ideology: engineering.
Mesh society is not an ideology. It is a collection of independent ideas. 

We can piecemeal, pick-and-choose, any of these mesh society ideas to support Democracy.
In other words:

* We need to brainstorm.
* We need to think out of the box.
* We need to innovate.
The National Ballot Measure Amendment is food for thought.

We need a new States convention to discuss new amendments to solve our problems with checks and balances having completely failed.
You might balk at not paying elected officials. However, realize:

1. Discourages money motive
2. States can provide housing for their members and family.
3. States can influence federal voting with housing perks office.
The National Referendum Act of the United States

Annual Federal Government Dissolution Amendment

All Federally elected officials and Supreme Court justices are immediately fired the year of adoption...

irreni.social/the-national...
National Ballot Measures are limited to 300 characters. Simple, clear demands to Congress. Pass this law or be removed.
The National Balllot Measure Amendment includes a bundle of initial measures:

1. Federally elected officials are volunteers. Net worth is prohibited from growing.
2. Parties banned.
3. Universal healthcare
4. Executive orders are banned.
5. Tariffs are Congress only.
6. Immigration Congress only.
The National Ballot Amendment contains other inventions:

2. Annual citizens vote of no confidence. The no confidence vote is an annual vote to fire all federally elected officials, ban them, and includes all appointed judges.

Every November.
The National Ballot Amendment includes other inventions:

1. Vote banking, your bank account has your votes always on deposit. The deposit is continuously tallied. No more polling.
Mesh society is not my only work. I have tons of ideas on supporting Democracy. One is National Ballot Measures. 

It appears complicated until one realizes that this establishes State  power over federal power. 

This must be, ballot measures are direct Democracy.
News for profit.

Sadly, we've forgotten that the propaganda leading up to repealing the Fainess doctrine was news for profit would make news better because capitalism. 

News couldn't be for profit under the Fairness Doctrine.

Yes, I'm that old.
The Fairness doctrine required News be a loss. News could not make money until the late 80s. The right promoted news for profit would be better. Sadly this timing coincided with the Web emerging and now we just blame click bait. 

Non-profit news worked. The right is always wrong.
Believe nothing that comes from the Trump administration.
I kinda take issue with the lovey themselves. Love of money, yes. My take is more self loathing so they loathe others.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-07
----------------------------------------

The problem is CBS is just reporting what ICE is saying. CBS is carrying Trump water.

JFYI
www.youtube.com/watch?v=O-A3...
You gotta know that dating sites are being inundated with profiles written by AI. With disclaimers, "this profile was not written by AI".  Profile photos are also being augmented by AI. 

We are inducing hallucinations, not just AI. 

The only society ready for AI ia mesh society.

irreni.social
This has been the case for dating websites for decades. Honey pots everywhere.
Cool.

We need to take this database and start a list of criminals. 

We should have a list of all Trump Admin criminals and crimes to prosecute day one when they leave.
For example I could claim that Yahweh clones himself for every Christian sect that exists and those clones die when the sect dies. This would mean:

1. After life of infinite hell punishment is true for that god.
2. Similarly annihilation is true. 
3. Everyone eventually ends in heaven.
Atheist: Prove polytheism doesn't exist considering Jesus and the trinity. 
Christian: They are both three and one. 
Atheist: Doesn't it logically follow then that there could be infinite as one? Polytheism? 
Christian: No, the Bible doesn't say that.
Atheist: It doesn't exclude it either.
Atheist: Why is Yahweh unique?
Christian apologist: Because Yahweh tells us.
Atheist: Then why do you need arguments for Yahweh existing? Doesn't, "Yahweh tells us" equally apply? 
Christian: Non-believers need convincing. 
Atheist: But only for monotheism, not disproving polytheism?
Christian: yes.
If you are curious where all this is coming from it is coming from the fact that arguments are not evidence. 

Once one opens the door that arguments without evidence are compelling, then anything goes inducing infinite Yahwehs existing simultaneously or as an  infinite regression chain.
So, finally, the evidence that Yahweh reproduces is the trinity, the story of Jesus himself.

Who's to say Yahweh didn't already have an infinite copies of himself? Yahweh says he can do it in the Bible: Hey! Zeus! and the Holy Spirit. 

The trinity as monotheism is self refuting.
I always find it interesting that when Christians claim we are all made in the puny god's image, that they ignore the fact that there are multiple humans that can reproduce. 

I posit there are multiple Yahwehs that reproduce given we are created in Yahwehs image.
Given we know nothing about the supernatural then multiple Yahwehs is a coin toss chance versus monotheism. 

And, as with infinite regression being logical,  infinite Yahwehs is a better argument because within the universe there are no unique processes. Project this onto the supernatural.
I would argue that all the thousands of sects of Christianity are all worshiping distinct gods based upon the properties of that god. There exists multiple Yahwehs. Nothing prevents this because we don't have any rules about the supernatural. We know nothing about the supernatural, anything goes.
Logically infinite regression is a better argument than the universe being unique when there is no evidence for either. This is because we haven't observed any unique process in the universe, aka a miracle. It follows that the initial universe state was not unique and there are multiple universes.
You never hear an argument for god exclude the existence of multiple gods. Monotheism has no argument other than the puny god says, "unht huh". The arguments that the universe has a creator as used by apologists work equally well for multiple gods. Yahweh and Allah could be both exist.
When asked about evidence against multiple gods either existing currently in the past as an infinite regression the argument is simply: I say so.

They don't even have an argument against polytheism. They never bring it up. If the puny god exists outside space and time, so can others.
Infinite regression works horizontally, polytheism, and vertically, the puny god had an even punier god creator infinite chain.

None of the arguments for the exist of the puny god in this video excludes the existence of previous gods or polytheism.

@professorplink.bsky.social
Good survey debunking puny god claims. 

This video reminded me of my favorite argument: infinite regression. None of these arguments for the existence of the puny god exclude Yahweh, Allah, and many gods existing simultaneously. Or in an infinite chain.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=C8Ri...


----------------------------------------
2025-10-06
----------------------------------------

The US is failed. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
Here is your denial:

1. Christians as a whole aren't rising up to overthrow Christian Nationalism and support Democracy.
2. Businesses as a whole aren't rising up to support Democracy.
3. Democrats as a whole aren't rising up to support Democracy. 
4. The challenge is larger than Trump.
Just a side note, how do I know it all in order to have all the solutions? I'm being meta when I'm saying I have all the solutions. The meta part is a design requiring world AI simulation for whole Earth management of all things. The simulation will put to test all claims about everything.
ICE are fascist terrorists working for a fascist terrorist regime made possible by fascist trans terrorist Christianity. Did I get them all? 

fascism, noun: 1. authoritarian power exercised by a combination of State, Corporate and Religious power.
The fulcrum of responsibility of simulation is the point where simulation rigs the outside world by influencing the world to enact the result. 

We see this on Wall Street every day. Insider trading rigs the price simulations by others. Insider trading is irresponsible.
So, 800 million on simulation and another 800 million on Earth project implementation. The 800 million working daily changing Earth will far exceed, dwarf even, the capacity of the 800 million working on simulation to keep up. This is by design.

Simulation has a fulcrum of responsibility.
Just to give you an idea of where the 3 out of 30 comes from. 

Irreni World Scale design calls for only 6 out of 30 people to work on projects, 3 on Project Zero. Workers are split 50/50 between simulation and implementation.
People really don't understand the scope and size of the world and the vastness of work required to address world projects like climate change.

That's where I come in. I have all the solutions(tm). 

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
3 out of 30 is one-tenth. One-tenth of the world population is 800 million people. World AI simulation in Irreni World Scale requires 800 million people working on AI Simulation every day.

Compare that to what, carbon capture? And AI simulation is not the the work required to manage climate.
Just to give you an idea the scope and size of world AI simulation Irreni requires 3 of 30 people work on Project Zero, Irreni Management. The vast majority will be working on world AI simulation, and those mostly on data input. It needs vast amounts of fresh data daily.
Building world AI simulation will take hundreds of years to complete. So what. Let's get started and realize the initially small incremental benefits we can get every day.
I will admit this about the conservative propaganda denying climate change: they are not wrong to point out the current "solutions" are isolated and don't take into consideration larger effects. 

Monitoring all effects requires world AI simulation. Climate activists are ignorant.
If we want to terraform this Earch, i.e. manage climate change, then we need whole world AI simulation of the butterfly effect of all projects and all people.

We are not grasping the complexity of the problem otherwise. 

The knee bone is connected to the thigh bone, farming connected to airplanes.
It is a colossal waste of AI today to be using it for code changes. 

As a society 100% of all the electricity used for LLMs right now would only scratch the surface of what's needed for world AI simulation. 

Yet here we are, wasting resources.
In weather production we call this kind of change the butterfly effect. A butterfly flaps its wings in Africa and causes a tornado in Kansas. 

Mesh society monitors the butterfly effect for all project and membership changes. AI simulation is a must.
Further, swapping members will impact ongoing projects. In other words, the calculus for membership change needs to factor in all projects, all people. 

Therefore mesh society requires a world AI. A world AI with everyone and the Earth in it.
The calculus for swapping membership will be much more than just personality matching. People need stable relationships, stable environments, and other long term needs. 

All of these long-term needs among others will be factored into swapping members.
I'm neurodivergent. I could say I'm an acquired taste. False.  It is better stated that certain personalities match better with mine. 

MGO membership is about fostering trust, social cooperation. This requires people get along. This requires behavioral science mixing-and-matching personalities.
We have science. Behavioral science. We now know how to mix-and-match personalities. Irreni MGO membership management will be swapping members for improvement far more frequently than for bad behavior. 

Especially during the next million years as the science improves.
If an MGO under management is mistreating anyone then membership can be changed, including disbanding the entire MGO. 

However, managed MGO membership is a zero-sum game. Members removed become members placed. 

Further, the number one reason for membership change is improvement.
There is no rule of law in mesh society. MGOs must join a management project, project Zero, to realize any benefits of society they need other people for. 

Management ensures the health and well being by evidence, not law. Data is collected daily on health.
Mesh society has constitutions and voting. Democracy of a sort. But only at the MGO level. At fixed size 30 people then today there would be 10 million Constitutions in the US. MGOs can rewrite their Constitution with little impact to society at large.
We've reached a stage in Democracy where the built-in flaws are working as designed and failing.

Elections can't fix that. Neither can a page-one rewrite of the Constitution. This would just reset the  design fail clock at best.

This is why we need mesh society. Mesh society builds trust.
Jefferson called rule of law accumulation tyranny of the dead over the living. While  true, it is better stated as blind obedience over trust.

Freedom = trust. I am trusted to do the right thing.

More laws, more blind obedience. More blind obedience = less trust. 

Less trust -> social collapse.
The fundamental trust flaw in the US Constitution is static rules: rule of law and rights.

1. We don't have rights. We have responsibilities. They change daily, rights do not.
2. Rule of law accumulates  law far more than it changes. More static law obliterates changed law.

Static is not trust.
The US Constitution is failed because it isn't trusted. It isn't trusted because it can't fail as a design.
The design of Irreni assumes trust will always need maintenance and refreshed. This equates to all experiments fail. Therefore there are no permanent projects in Irreni. 

Project zero is the perpetual management project. However, it is still renewed and rewritten every five years.
3. Scale. Experiments can have from two to all MGOs participate.
4. Ephemeral. Trust always breaks down. To foster this project contracts have to be renewed every five years.
Irreni World Scale, mesh society, is a trust system. 

Trust is a continuous exercise and skill improvement. Never ending. Trust is fostered in Irreni in multiple ways.

1. Scope: MGO is fixed size thirty people. Primary trust circle.
2. Experiments are trust vehicles. They fail when trust fails.
Sadly the tech bros do not have a tradition of trust like the US military. 

When the tech bros say empathy is bad, they are saying trust is bad.

The tech bros don't know how to trust. 

We are not in a good place.
The US military trusts those they command, not just the simple demand of blind obedience of orders. Those Generals know that a two-million population army cannot function on blind obedience alone.  Trump and Hegseth do not.

The military will have to make a choice: fall apart or push back.
Tyrants like Trump, on the other hand, demand blind obedience. This is anathema to cooperation, especially that required for high tech. 

This may not be obvious but the US military understands trust. 

When Hegseth and Trump demanded blind obedience you could hear the cringe.
Management is rarely competent. They may start out that way day as an engineer, but that skill quickly fades as they spend their days in meetings.

Less competency means less trustworthy as an expert. 

All the good managers I've had  recognize this and trust their workers more than themselves.
Loyalty and trust are opposites. They are in opposition. 

As business leaders today foist and mandate LLM AI onto developers they are foisting blind loyalty, blind obedience. 

You can't have both trust and obedience. 

This was the lesson of the Kobiashi Maru in Star Trek.
LLM AI is a large copy/paste machine that includes context. It might be able to detect illogical requirements that are and give up. It will not know when to ask the VP of engineering about priorities it is unaware of. Real-time context it is unaware of.
I'm currently looking for my next gig. If you were to hire me then you are wanting the trust of four decades of experience developing software in environments of competing interests. Especially testing. 

How much testing is needed? I can answer that.
AI can't push back or improve orders. AI doesn't understand what it is doing. AI is blind obedience.

The value I bring as an experienced engineer is trust. Trust that if given faulty orders/requirements I can give feed back with trusted emotional support. 

LLM AI will never be able to do that.
AI is a tech bro wet dream because it is skilled blind obedience.  However, AI as skilled loyalty will do no better than unskilled loyalty. Why?

Because trust requires a feedback loop. I don't just write software. I don't just blindly follow requirements, aka orders.
Trust. Without trust humans go extinct.  Trust is the blood of cooperation and foundation of social groups.

Tyrants don't want trust, they want obey, loyalty. Obey is a false substitute for trust.

Trust is high effort and requires great skill.
Loyalty is unthought, no skill obedience.
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm)!

Good news! Mesh society is ready for you.

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
It is not just Trump bringing down this country. But also 100% of all the business leaders, all embracing fascism. 

We can't protest our way out of this.
Washington's intuition was spot on. Slavery is tyranny and eventually fails due to incompetence of strict compliance with the incompetent. 

Human nature is hard wired for cooperation, social groups. Tyranny suppresses human nature.
The arrogance of the tech bros is ancient. Tyranny is compliance, human success is cooperation.

Tyrants don't do cooperation.
Trump will forbid universities from communicating by demanding all communication be routed through and approved by The National Security Council.
This lack of open communication is what lead to the Internet. The US wanted the fasted speed possible for scientists to make things. 

Trump will follow Stalin and forbid universities from communicating.
The former Soviet Union is the destiny of the US. A former Soviet threat analyst noted that Stalin was so paranoid, a trait of all tyrants, that he forbid his scientists to talk to each other. The analyst noted that scientists had to learn about a thing being invented and then reinvent that thing.
The remaining empowerment companies like Illumina will have no choice but to follow suit. Software innovation will die. Because the greed incentive doesn't foster cooperation. It fosters competition that is a euphemism for cutthroat, at all cost, behavior.
The current tech leaders are mirrors of your bosses that preceded high tech. A**holes, mean, vindictive, and bullies. Like Trump they can't understand empowerment. It is beyond them, unimaginable.
I was very lucky that my high-tech career paralleled the lifespan of the empowerment movement. It makes me equally sad to know the new generation won't get to experience it.
I've worked with Silicon Valley companies my entire career. Illumina is still an empowerment company I'm  happy to say, even as new leadership is trending FANG. 

You don't want the greed chasers. The kind that hop to FANG jobs just for money. I would never work for a FANG company. I love my work.
The US is going to collapse because high tech requires high cooperation voluntarily given. Fascism demands compliance with incompetent management orders.

People like Trump truly believe in beating people until morale improves. So do FANG companies. The just sweeten the pain with greed.
The T admin won't be able to pull off the "Golden Dome" satellite defense with incompetence required for all layers of management.

The FANG companies will suffer a similar demise and rapidly. Good people don't work for evil and when forced to just follow incompetent orders.
My point is this: we have hard evidence that the empowerment movement created Google. The empowerment movement embraced DEI without giving it a name. They didn't need to because they saw it as profitable. 

Authoritarianism and tyranny are the opposite of empowerment: oppression.
The FANG companies are running the clock out on being technical leaders. 

FANG will succumb  to maintenance mode only just like IBM.

Nvidia will become very very evil. OpenAI is already there.
Google has one thing going for it today: greed. 

Greed is why FANNG jobs of Facebook,Apple Nvidia, and Google are highly sought after.

Oracle and Microsoft dont make the cut because their reputation proceeds them: they are known in the industry for tyrannical work environments.
Google is the most evil company today. The irony is that they got there riding the coattails of the empowerment movement of the late 90s. 

Google turned empowerment into fashion with gourmet chef lunches and on-campus bikes. Novelty empowerment.
This started a movement that lasted about a decade. Businesses started building on-site gyms and daycare to empower employees. The failed "open door" policies were supposed to expose dysfunctional environments that discouraged worker initiative.
He wrote a book about empowerment where he wrote about worker expertise. Workers had trapped knowledge caged by rigid systems of rules. Give employees their wings and they will fly.
In the 1980s Fred Peters, then CEO of FedEx, started a business movement called empowerment. 

He discovered that if he empowered his employees they performed better. Dramatically so.

In other words, DEI is profitable. That's all DEI is, empowerment to attract.
Tech companies like Apple are playing a very dangerous game. As they embrace tyranny they shed competence. 

Let me tell you a story about this.
Given this tiny fraction of the competent people being pathalogically evil, then they are going to be in high demand. 

Don't be surprised to hear of billion dollar packages for engineers.
Studies show there is only a 1% order of the population that is psychotic and high functioning. Evil component people willing to work for the likes of Trump.
OpenAI offering $1 million salary exposes this. That's a desperate appeal. They think that tyranny can buy competence. 

Imagine the tyranny when having a million dollar salary. OpenAI is tyranny and oppression in its workplace, guaranteed.
Good people dont work willing at companies like Google and Facebook. These companies are living on borrowed time from the 00s when they were seen as good.

Eventually they won't be able to recruit. You can't yell an iPhone into existence.
I've often wondered how long Nazi Germany would have lasted if left alone. Authoritarians rely on incompetent, loyalist cronies and that concept spreads out to encompass everyone in the country. They become dystopian h*ll holes of wasteland.
George Washington was not in favor of abolishing slavery. He preferred slavery choke  to death under its own weight, perhaps taking a hundred years.
If T reduces our military competence by even just 10% that's going to have consequences. Good people don't work for bad people except under duress. That work is unimaginative and rote.
Authoritarians only deatroy. They do not create. Trump can easily destroy our military capacity by replacing what competence we have with incompetent sycophants like Hegseth.
Tyranny, fear, intimidation, and total control are antithetical to the creativity, discipline and confidence needed for high tech. This is why countries like Saudia Arabia produce nothing.
As someone who works in the computing world, this level of surveillance requires expertise ICE and the Feds don't have. Plus, they don't require evidence today. Why bother?

More likely this is propaganda, scare tactics to silence.
So communism, socialism and Marxism are not a problem? This tactic is why supposed liberals get labeled as right-wing. They spend far more energy bashing the left for things like this when the right does far worse and they say nothing.


----------------------------------------
2025-10-05
----------------------------------------

Many of us warned that suspending habeus corpus for international prisoners would lead to this happening within our borders.

Our current demise has been a long trajectory. The Ds never codified Roe, they never reversed any of the illegal precedence Bush set, including waterboarding toruture.
Just a reminder: labeling people without justification was the Bush strategy during the War on Terror. They arbitrarily labeled people "terrorists" without proof. The gave people money to turn in their neighbors and sent them to Gitmo. 

T is just using that same principle within the US.

Perhaps chapstick in your non-existent purse:

bsky.app/profile/toon...
Marc Elias asks, "Can [Americans] actually save America?"

No.

Because Democrats won't save it and we are a two party system.

Yes.

If we start a new party to entirely replace the Democratic party. Call it The Replacements party. Make a movie. :)
You gotta admit Reptilian humans are some pretty top-shelf conspiracy stuff here. Fun in the sun.
Conservatives shadow boxing hallucinations of fetish; liberals who give 2 s**ts about Schumer. Of course Antifa doesn't exist either. As I said, they should switch to liberals being aliens. I'm sure MAGA would have more fun fantasizing about aliens. Snake people. 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reptili...
No reason to use euphemisms.

"aggressive tactics" -> "terrorist tactics"

ICE are terrorists terrifying protestors and not in the Halloween kinda way.
Doing an emdash around time.
Yeah? Republicans?
We need to pass a Constitutional amendment to remove the pardon power, no replacement. 

All the arguments in favor ostensibly cover up all its evils.

All Trump has to do is pardon his entire administration.
Everyone in the Trump admin is going to end up in jail and they know it. Their position is Trumps postion: authoritarianism to stay out of jail. 

That's T's strategy. Crime is their culture.
I've advocated for different cultures here:

1. Ads
2. Sex worker
3. Celebrities 
4. Sports 
5. Politics 

Would that be a hard problem? Yes. Because people want to, at times, immerse in multiple cultures. At times is the hard part.
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm) for the precipitate needed today.

Mesh society replaces Demcracy, bureaucracy, patriarchy, and all hierarchy.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
We should've continued researching multiple vaccines instead of relying on just one. 

With two vaccines in play we could smoke out anomalies in the one we have today. 

As Alexander Pope observed, "A person with one watch is sure of the time. A person with two watches is not so sure"
Sometimes we are faced with situations where time to experiment is not an option. Pandemics like COVID kill millions quickly.

However, it needs to explained to people as a high risk experiment. That was the public relations failure of the vaccine. People were told it was 100% safe.
Adopting an experiment footing when faced with unknowns is the answer, not religion and not single policies rolled out to everyone like with Obamacare.
To whit, we should address public policy for minimizing violence as multiple experiments with multiple policies of limited populations. Trial and error is the best to be had when faced with the unknown.
1. Admit we don't know.
2. Reject religion always in politics.
3. Multiple experiments.
4. Multiple policies, not Obamacare as a first attempt. 
5. Political discourse must be experiment driven, experiment normalized.
Obamacare, the ACA, should not have been rolled out nationwide. Perhaps 2-3 States. No, we should have experimented with perhaps 20 different healthcare policies. Let them run for 10 years. 

Obamacare will fail because it was an experiment of way too many variables. We can't learn anything from it.
1. Admit we don't know.
2. Reject religion always in politics.
3. Multiple experiments.

A single policy implies certainty. We should adopt multiple policies in limited groups when faced with the unknown.
1. Admit we don't know.
2. Reject religion always in politics.

The unknown about social behavior doesn't relieve us of responsibilities. 

We need experiments. Plural.
Reject religion always, 100% of the time. 

When religion comports with science it is unnecessary. When religion provides answers without science it is genocide in Gaza. Misogyny. Racism. Trans hate. Gay hate.
The challenge is what should politics do in the face of the unknown and the best answer science can provide is "unknown".

The first step is to admit we don't know. This is where religion is evil. Religion has certainty about human nature where none exists. People want answers when none exists.
We atheists are intimately familiar with the "god of the gaps". 

Intelligent design, the watch maker argument,  is god of the gaps. 

We live in politics of the gaps. Baseless claims about social behavior based on nothing.

Politics of the gaps. 

Politics of the gaps is killing us.
I took a communications class in, get this, high school. The opening line in the textbook is, "America stands in fear most of a moment of silence." 

We need to revise this to, "America stands in fear most of I don't know."
I study anthropology. What we can predict about human nature is very limited. Most claims in the public today about violence are pure fabrication.
If we demanded all claims about violence be backed by science, citation needed, then we quickly realize "don't know" or unknown is the highest degree of confidence even as we've studied violence for centuries.

Violence is mental health, mental health is poorly understood putting it nicely.
The fundamental problem with society today is that everyone makes claims about human behavior without basis. 

Religion is always wrong. Religion predates science.

We need to use the science of violence, not baseless claims of political violence.
What's needed is a solid basis rooted in culture education. All we have right now is hand waving claims about society.
It is worse than that. Blueshy is both a social experiment and a technology platform. The Bluesky team has no interest in sociology.
Vision? Jay conflates anthropology (a) with technology in her vision. She's as empty as most people on a. CEOs make claims about a that are wrong every day. She needs to find an expert in sociology to be the CEO. ML can't fix flawed reasoning on a.
I have suggested multiple times distinct Bluesky gardens by discover feed/moderation type. Each garden drops one into a pool of accounts. 38 million accounts can easily support ten such gardens and have millions in the feed.
Hear me out, but to me fashion is art. Love the dress. 

And since the world revolves around me, I requesting hats.
Blue MAGA wants to go back to pre-Trump, 2015. This clip of Marc and Ruth puts the lie to Blue MAGA the same as MAGA is a lie about going back to the 1950s. There is no going back. 

Businesses are silent because they want this chaos, they want the guard rails eliminated.
----------------------------------------
2025-10-04
----------------------------------------

Silence is consent and this is no more evident than with big business being silent on Trump in addition to the businesses actively supporting fascism.

"The silence of the business community will go down as one of this generations biggest shame." -Marc Elias @democracydocket.com

There is nothing wrong with a passion only for code. Just don't pretend otherwise, which is what S*itter is doing by pretending they care about society and free speech.
The tech enthusiasts at Bluesky should admit their passion is only for the code and relagate themselves to just being github content creators.

Find a group of modern anthropologists , linguists, and such to run the site.
Sadly Bluesky is no different. Telling people to start their own PDS in order to justify ignoring the hard social problems created by the tech is pathetic. It is going to fail at remaining different than S*itter.
This is the fundamental problem with tech companies. They are tech enthusiasts who are passionate about tech only. Oblivious to the social experiment outcomes. They don't  care. They just want big money for tech passion.
Bluesky is going to go the way of S*itter because ultimately Bluesky is a social experiment and no one , and I mean no one, at Blusky knows anything about anthropology. Bluesky is a tech-for-tech-sake ego driven company. How can it succeed?
This paradox of scale where more people means more rules that imposes more oppression on all the members is the toxicity of social media. It is also the assured downfall of population growing Democracies.
Bluesky is reflecting a social media paradox: ever more rules are needed for ever more people that want distinct small sets of rules.

One size of accumulated rules cannot fit all.
Bluesky is just beginning its accumulation of law and feels fresh. But current tensions are already exposing the existing tolerance impositions are not scaling to 38 million. The accumulation only grows, creating more imposition while increasing population needs ephemeral imposition.
Mesh society replaces rule of law systems, Democracy, with experiments called projects. Projects have contacts stating objectives, hypothesis, and implementation.

Projects that succeed renew. This replaces the concept of justice. All projects eventually fail. This replaces accumulated law.
We've known since day one that Democracy calcifies & collapes under the weight of increasing impositions of accumulated law. 

Further accumulated law is the only way to create cultures at scale for rule of law systems. 

Every rule of law system collapes under its own weight. We've known this 1789.
Democracy fails because rule of law doesn't scale. It is too slow to optimize tolerance of imposition thresholds. 

Jefferson recognized this by saying rule of law is rule of the dead over the living. He wanted the Constition rewritten every 20 years.
In Irreni society small culture is fixed size 30 people: MGOs. Everyone culture is millions of projects of 2 or more MGOs.

Projects are millions of 2-all number MGOs in order in optimize tolerance of imposition.

Each MGO will have changing thresholds of tolerance as people age and change.
In other words:
1. Small culture stable.
2. Everyone culture ephemeral.

Ephemeral culture in Mesh society is called projects.

Projects:
1. 5 year maximum contracts.
2. Voluntary participation.
3. Millions
4. 2-all possible small culture size.
The insight to "fredom" and culture size is that the immediate daily culture should be 30 people, stable and slow to change. 

The everyone culture is based on tolerance of imposition. That tolerance of imposition will change per person as well as large scale groups.
A culture of size 30 and a culture of everyone at the same time? How?

Thomas Jefferson expressed it like this. He was asked how much charity the Federal gov should use taxes for. His reply was, "as much as people will tolerate?"
I could write a text book on why 30. Intuitively we want the smallest culture possible to maximize personal control. Unituitively we need everyone to help manage climate, a culture of all.
The tension and contradictions of wanting complete personal control and with maximum social control of us in order to have iPhones is called culture.

We want balanced culture, balanced personal with social control.
The underlying instinct for the desire of freedom is control. 

We want to control our lives and yet get maximum benefit of dependency on society, society that imposes control on us . 

That is not freedom.
Freedom is an evil word precisely because the concept subverts culture and our dependencies on social groups, social order. We must follow social rules.
Everything I have suggested here for Bluesky is part of Mesh Society design, irreni.social. 

In Irreni a culture is 30 people. This is what people mistakenly call freedom. A small culture allows all members to directly shape the culture.
Bluesky could make money on an ad domain that keeps this free domain alive. 

This is not about free speech. This is about culture. A culture of 38 million can't exist. Traditions and morals don't scale. Ergo the current US pain and suffering.
Bluesky needs to limit account interaction to a maximum size. Accounts that are inactive need to go into read-only mode and move when reactivated. 

Arbitrary is not fair. But it is understandable. An account interaction size of 38 million is not.
Ads, bullies, sex workers, and celebrities are very hard boundaries. Then there are children. 

Bluesky needs to wrestle with all these boundaries and it cannot be one-size-fits-all moderation like YouTube. 

YouTube ads are getting worse by the minute.
Think about bullies. They get banned on Bluesky. But one could just shunt them to a bully shard. Let them harass each other. They are doing it on S*itter.

Bluesky is just tech. Mastadon is the tech used for Gab and Truth Social. Similarly, so will Bluesky be used..
A lot of us would prefer ad-free, sex worker free, nsfw spaces. We shouldn't be subject to unsolicited content, even advertorials  hocking Amazon.

Sorry sex workers, the general public is not your oyster.
There are two distinct contentious communities Bluesky should segment: celebs and ads.

People need to make a living. I get people stay on S*itter.  

Bluesky should provide an ad shard. Let influencers and sex workers make money.

Celebrities have unique security challenges and drive ad revenue.
Our Democracy is dead because it does not scale to 300 million. Looking around the world, the healthy Democracies are around 10 million. The US should shard into 30 distinct countries of around 10 million tops.
Bluesky needs to contain users to shards. Let users incorporate posts by account or shard into their feed. 

However replies and messages are limited to the shard base.
Bluesky is not going to get to 500 million users with one moderation service. Only a few can create a PDS.
What size is too large? An interesting feed. Given one only looks at a few hundred posts then 38 million users becomes noise. 

Sharding is a geolocation design concept to keep user data near the user. Similar to image content providers. 

Shard users by geolaction and arbitrary size.
With millions of users it is no surprise people are at odds over moderation. Reddit addresses this with community moderation. 

The problem is not social media, but scale. It is impressive to get to 38 million with one moderation.
Suggestion: channels. 

A channel is a distinct mode. They have distinct moderation  not accessible to each other. Provide multiple moderation services where all feeds only see that content. Posts only exist in that channel. 2-3 channels should do it.
Call it the Practical party.

The left comes off as impractical with its wish lists. Certainly the right has smeared the left as impractical socialist, communist free loaders.

Go with the Practical party. No more chicken in every pot, just do the best we can.
The time is now to start a left party. The Ds are in a race to the bottom with T for the lowest approval ratings.

Bernie Sanders should start a party or sit down. Yelling isn't cutting it.
If the left wants to prosecute the entire T admin for these horrific crimes then they will have to form a new party. Same goes for repairing the the damage. The Ds are Lucy holding the football, the left are Charlie Brown.
Progressives will become convenient patsies for doing nothing. The Ds will not prosecute any T admin crimes, nor will they fix what's been broken.

Fraum is way too Polly Annish about the Ds. No expectations should be the null position. Negative expectations for MAGA.
David Fraum recently posited a false dichotomy: once Ds retake power again,  then they will have to decide: justice or repair. 

They could do both or neither. My money is on neither because the same billionaires own both parties. The billionaires want this.
Yes, I'm a cynic, but Ds have been running Coumos against Mahndavis for years now. I predict the Ds will allow 15-20 progressives win. 

Why?
The Democrats are a center-right party. Fiscally conservative, corporate corrupt, and only  liberal when it's little or no risk. 

The Ds hate the left as much as MAGA. I wish the left would quit denying this. No denial. Know your enemy.

The never Trumper Rs are Ds. The Ds are moving hard right.
Yeah, no. 

If I had to frame this, then I'd say the left is shunning the center the way MAGA shunned the never Trumpers like William "The Bloody" Krystol. 

We are morphing into three parties: left, center right, and insane right. 

How this plays out with only two parties then I don't know.
I find it telling that the left gets scolded by borh the center and the right.

1. Be tolerant of harassment called debate.
2. Unity with people that want to kill you.
MAGA is not forbidden on Bluesky. Bluesky has a strict no harassment policy. The MAGA crowd lives only to harass, or "debate" as they call it. So you won't find MAGA here.

This is why Ezra Klein is a fool. Charlie K**k was MAGA personified, a bully's bully. Harassment is not debate.
It is strange to see ChatGPT writing conservative media as if it is still 2015. It is similarly weird to see all these attempts by Ezra Klein and CBS to both sides it with liberal and conservative opinion like the IDW in 2015. They just devolve to MAGA bully audiences hating woke and trans.
Who knows? Maybe CBS is going full red pilled to get that sweet, sweet billiolionare money. 

Nobody cares though. Well, maybe the Centrists will care.
What has worked is cosplaying as libs. Pod Save America and the Bulwark are wolves in sheep's clothing. William "The Bloody" Krystol. I mean come on.

I think the left is slowly coming to its senses about The Bulwark. 

CBS going full Zionist means a MAGA and Centrist audience.
It is curious why Ezra Klein and CBS think setting up shop yet agaun to own the libs has any new market potential. Liberals aren't interested in disingenuous "debate".
CBS is yet again going to try and boot a formula that started as Hannity and Colmbes on Fox News: "both sides" solely to own the libs. 

Bari Weiss failed. Liberals don't read it. Centrists and MAGA just want to read about woke getting owned. 

CBS bought the Free Press failure anyway.
The Free Press has a predecessor that is still in existence: Quillette. In fact The Free Press hired Cole Hughes who made his name on Quillette.

The problem with the IDW, The Free Pree, and Quillete is their audience instantly devolves to the same bully, garbage, rat bag thugs  that read MAGA.
What's  further laughable is Bari Weiss. She put the IDW on the map with her IDW NYT puff piece. 

The Free Press was started by Weiss as a "both sides" non-partisan, IDW experiment. 

Too late, IDW was a fraud. And so is the free press.
Back in 2015 conservatives like Ben Shapiro or Jordan Peterson were watched by everyone. Now they are only known in MAGA land. 

It's laughable that Ezra Klein is trying to reboot   the Intellectual Dark Web by himself. 

It's laughable because that's what everyone did, laugh at him.
Who cares CBS hired Bari Weiss. ABC, CBS, and NBC are old, tired,  irrelevant media. 

Far as I can tell there are three echo chambers.

1. MAGA media 
2. Legacy media
3. Streaming media

Legacy media does engage both, but streaming media has left the other two behind.
Since AI took over writing conservative media I've noticed:

1. American replaced conservative. They gas light liberals don't exist.
2. Still write like liberals read mainstream news like CBS and Bari Weiss.

ChatGPT is behind the times.
Had enough? Just a reminder that I have all the solutions(tm). 

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Great historical analysis of today.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=ovor...
AI software: 1. the notion you don't have to understand the software you write. 2. the notion you don't have to understand.
I should add this is also a spooky, haunting song. What makes it spooky is the piano is playing bass beats. The bass is playing organ beats. The haunting is the guitar singing to you, taking a walk through a troubled mind.
The Beatles "White Album" inspired rock bands to put anti-signature sound songs on albums. This is Black Sabbath doing a soft lyrical, jazz-like deep cut.  Mood Music to think about life while looking at Lava Lamps and Black Light posters. 

vimeo.com/1124095988?f...
----------------------------------------
2025-10-03
----------------------------------------

There exists the right's replacement theory.
There exists the AI replacement fact.

Billionaires pay for both.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Conservative news update whereI read a rare op/ed headline: how things have gotten better. 

Most of it was celebrating liberal tears except, "The end of DEI means males will be hired again."

DEI was not affirmative action. Ensuring women have private places to pump milk is not affirmative action.

AI wars are coming. Sounds like something to feed an LLM given the bulk.

I think it is time to retire describing the US as "law and order" and use "grievance and tantrums" instead.

If we don't adopt mesh society immediately then there will exist only one group socially adapting quickly to high tech advancement: a very tiny group of uber rich.

Once the uber rich get entrenched as the only recipients of high tech then they will be impossible to dislodge. Permanent dystopia.
We need rapid social adaption to match rapid tech change.

That can't happen in top down, hierarchical systems. It's not possible.

We need a massive, loosely federated mesh society running millions of experiments simultaneously.
Good news! I have all the solutions(tm). 

Everything happening today was foreseen by George Orwell and so many other sci-fi writers since just extrapolating human nature. 

Dystopia is 100% guaranteed if we stay on course of slowly socially adopting to rapid tech change.
AI is another governing  upheaval. 

Yet we are all sitting in conversations of the past. 

The billionaires are counting on the public staying stuck in the past while they pursue AI, indefinite lifespans and genetic engineering. 

Their goal is total social control. 

No denial. No your enemy.
There are two races going on right now with only marginal public awareness.

1. Indefinite life spans
2. Genetic engineering

If either one of those have breakthroughs then all the governing  rules become irrelevant. This is where your head needs to be at.
As long as we keep insisting on framing information age problems in pee-information age notions then we are trapped. The conditions are radically different. Fascism and Gilded Age ideas serve no purpose, and even worse are holding us back.

This is not history repeating. It is new.
The problem before us is that the "Gilded" age of the late 19th Century was contained within the US only. 

The current US billionaires own the world. This is not the Gilded Age. It is bigger and different. Elon Musk is interfering in multiple country elections.
Eventually historians will arrive at an already obvious cause of US failure. 

The US success became its failure. Specifically the clock started running once the US became 25% of the world GDP with less than 10% of the world population. 

Corruption destroying Democracy was 100% certain.
In their video posted the hosts are on an "I told you so" tour predicting fascism. 

John Adams predicted it. The flaws have been their since the get-go. Adams predicted the country would only last 25 years. He got labeled a monarchist because of it.

The checks and balances were always weak tea.
The fact that people can't admit the US is already destroyed doesn't solve anything. 

But it is not just this country. Britain is not far behind. Democracies all over the world are crumbling. 

Democracy is dead. Hierarchy is dead. 

Mesh society now.

irreni.social
If you watch this video you will see two people almost there, almost out of their denial. They still believe somewhere, somehow there is a solution to America's current political demise when there is none. There is no solution. This country is failed.

youtu.be/nGsMUYcxpgM?...
----------------------------------------
2025-10-02
----------------------------------------

Ezra Klein = the New York Times. Amoral masquerading as neutrality. As as one commenter put it, radical neutrality. Radical neutrality is sacrificing minorities to appease the majority. 

Although women are 1/2 the population so abandoning women's rights isn't close to minority. Fake neutrality.
Austerity from 2009. The thing is they learned to call it something other than austerity: government waste. 

Otherwise all the "benefits" they claim about austerity are the same.
...mesh society! 

Join an MGO today! 

irreni.social
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm) for your future precipitates. I've been thinking about AI for decades.  If you want to precipitate AI correctly then join an MGO. 

MGOs have a house AI. A personal AI of any use will be too expensive. A house AI for 30 people will do. 

irreni.social
Weird recognizing weird of all kinds of orders will be the new handshake. 

Speak Klingon. Or whatever weird tribe you are wanting.
I'm pointing this out because sci-fi writers have been saying for decades to go all in on weird. Tradition is where the masses and the AI sheep hang out.

We all have some degree of neurodivergence. You might want to strategize on publicly embracing it. 

Now.
In many ways, Trump is neurdivergent distinguished. He is unique in  a DC full of tradition. 

JD Vance would do well to go all in on public weird, like say, using eyeliner. 

Vance is too common in an AI age.
Being neurodivergent will quickly become a hot commodity if high functioning. This will make you distinguished. AI will dominate tradition. Charlie Kirk Jesus is leader common place.
Being weird is something AI will struggle to copy. This is anti-traditional. Traditional is a top AI market and target. My name Mybrid is weird. It is AI armor I created in 1985. If you are easy to copy you are AI lunch. Full stop.
In the AI age we need an AI mind set. I've been there for decades, having prepared. Even with movies like The Terminator people are being caught mentally unprepared for AI human replacement and mimicry. You've been warned for decades.
I highly recommend a best practice: own it. 

Owning my neurodivergence in your face eliminates all the mental health bigots from the get-go. 

I always explain it interviews. Occasionally, people are drawn to the courage. That's a start.
This strategy of cutting through the BS showcasing has worked very well for me. With AI creating ever increasing BS layers then having a good "no BS" set of filters is more important than ever.

Being old has nothing to do with keeping up with the times. Being invested does.
There are more rational people out there. Those are my target audience.

It's a they know, I know, they know game. 

They know I know photos discourage at my age. They can choose to take that as I'm rational. 

Put enough of they know I know indicators in your resume and build a solid case of no BS.
My strategy is BS filtering. I changed my name to something weird, Mybrid, as a life BS filter in general. People who are put off by it self-select to ignore me. Removes shallow people up front. 

Same principle applies to putting my photo on my resume. People put off by a photo reject me, win-win.
Incorrect claims about human nature make tech job and date matching problematic. 

How do you respond to the BS? Agree? Disagree? Bob and weave? 

It works both ways. Most people have BS claims on their profiles and resumes.
The closest thing to the insanity of the tech interview is online dating. 

True horror is not entertaining. Online dating and tech interviews are true horror. 

The human nature claims made by people on dating profiles are mostly wrong and baseless other than anecdotal.
I'm reminded of this every time I go out.

I'm 63 and put my photo in my resume. If someone is dismissing people just because they are old, you don't want to work there.

The photo is an easy filter.
Tech interviews are worse than random chance because almost everything claimed about human nature is BS.

Still, one has to persevere.
Few things are more irrational than job hunting in the tech market. 

Tech people are worse than the religious about human nature claims. They actually believe their BS.


----------------------------------------
2025-10-01
----------------------------------------

AI wars are coming. Soon you'll need an AI security system to protect from AI hack intrusions.
I'd bet a dollar that if the Blue States declared the current Fed gov as having seceded by not upholding the Constitution and then created a new valid Fed gov for any State that wants to join, then the military would back the new government in a heartbeat.
Probably a good time to repeat: States convention to redeclare the Dec. Of Ind. Then form a new Fed gov banning D and R parties to replace current.

New elections for joining States.
I think Bluesky needs to think about the social scalability monolithic moderation service. It seems their current take is for people to set up PDS. But social media needs adoption. Bluesky should become Rainbowsky and fork many moderation services of millions of users.
In Silicon Valley we have an expression for this: your success becomes your failure. The huge gulf in wages between tech companies and other Americans was bound to end up in corruption. Just as America's financial success after WWII success became corruption failure.
Yo! @wajali.bsky.social , I like your stuff. I've not seen people refer to the Supreme Court as fascist. They are. They want to marry church and state. That's fascism.
fascism, noun: 1. Authoritarianism realized by some combination of State, Church, and Corporate powers. 

I prefer this much simpler definition over text book ones that look ostensibly at all the features and traits for qualification. The sophisticated definitions defy evolution.
Wow, here is some top-shelf anti-fascism from the Hawai'i Supreme court  trashing the Supreme Court. Mm. 

"State constitutionalism makes it easy to consider Roberts Courts jurisprudence white noise." 

In other words, F the Supreme Court. Yes! F the fascist Supreme Court! 

youtu.be/mxY7fh7J31c?...
What we all need is an Ezra Klein palate cleaner.

Here is some trenchent Christopher Hitchens 

m.youtube.com/watch?v=cRsa...
This op-ed scratched an itch about Ezra Klein, he is a Democratic lapdog as K**k was a MAGA lapdog. He's a paid actor. One cannot debate someone who is handed a script to recite. 

Both Ks are Roman barkers standing on a box reading a scroll at top volume.

No discussion. No debate.
Free read. Go for it.

Reminded me of why I miss Chistopher Hitchens. Hitchens was everything Ezra Klein is not: polimist, bombastic, funny, charming, warm, literature, history, and in your face. 

Klein is a walking trope factory of banality, someone you forget while talking to them.


The mobito just shook down YouTube for $21 million and is now looking for protection money from more markets like home furnishings and entertainment. Pet food is next.
Protest sigh after first election.
one of my favorite from the Floyd era.
Don't tread on me is now join or die. Again, during the Floyd era.
This one from the Floyd are depicts the KKK connection.
A well done painting from the Floyd era.
Another one from the Floyd era protests.
This meme has been around for ages. This from from the Floyd protests.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-30
----------------------------------------

If you are interested in this kind of thing, Amazon released data a couple of years go showing that 80% of Alexa requests are just old people asking the time and weather.
I study human nature, anthropology, for social engineering. Humans are reliably predictable. Pre-packaged answers will be trivial to curate.
Sadly, I think it is time to rethink the mission. Legal battles are less viable daily.
Had enough?

Just a reminder I have all the solutions(tm). And precipitates. :)

The solution you need to filtrate social precipitates is Mesh society.  

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
We are in unprecedented times. Relying on concepts like fascism is MAGA spirit. Everything that has changed due to the internet, smartphones, etc is immediately left out. Because they didn't exist.
We deserve more than platitudes and lip service for likes. This is just celebrity credibility farming.
Sorry, I took the long way around the horn. Efficacy of design is not the adoption key. While it is admirable and desirable to have the best design, it's not reality. Windows, TCP/IP v4, etc all have superior designs. Mastadon is used by Truth Social, Gab, etc. Who is using atproto?
Thank!
Linux is a crap OS. I am a systems engineer by education. It's a monolithic kernel. It was dissed as such the day Linus released it. Efficacy of design had nothing to do with its adoption. BSD was better tech. However, the BSD community was brutal. Linux got lucky with enough disenchanted in BSD.
I personally think AT is a better block chain. Crypto and block chains are not sustainable. Too high energy requirements. Store data in banks similar to safety deposit boxes.
What I'm saying is that the momentum where any social app protocol reaches adoption of significance then it will become  the new Linux versus Windows monopoly. Efficacy of design will be moot. Adoption takes over.
Yes, Linux is superior to Windows. The argument here is large corporations still aren't large enough, not open source. Windows lost the server market and so did Solaris. They couldn't change fast enough. Apple has a closed hardware/source monopoly that is an exception.
Lol. Sorry, that's internal. Corporate America, Redhat , forced systemd on Linux, now over a million lines of code. Journaling file system is only understood by a few. Complexity converges in closed source.
Linux is a monopoly. Back in the 90s we had 20-30 open OS. Corporate America stepped in and went all in on Linux as corporate protocol. If ATproto becomes that monopoly then does that equal the objective of open source?
So, not how I would frame it. Bluesky is like UBI. Isn't big enough to impact markets. Once it is then billionaires will buy it by paying 10 times more developers to twist it. See Linux.
I think the better comparison is fashion. Handbags.

The end user cannot distinguish a fake. And won't care if the price is cheap even when they know it is a knock off.

Just record AI answers and sell them.
Life is a feedback loop. There is a conversation to be had about open source being free labor. Also corporate protocols. MIT license is not GPL open source. I read the .io article. A bit too much glossing over such tensions.

I didn't watch this video on why guys play girls in video games. I don't play women, I role play.

I first started gaming in the 70s. AD&D. You lost points and died a tragic death if you ran your character as yourself.  Run the character true to its character, not yours. 

Weird take.
The UN is in NYC. So, Fox News wants to bomb NYC. You know who else wanted to take down NYC buildings?

Al Qaida.
I lived in Oakland for 9 years across from a high school. A drug dealer owned a home across the street with a sign that said, "no drug dealing within 500 yards, penalties are doubled."

A cop was posted there one day. I said to the cop, "You know that's a drug dealers' house, right"? Got nothing.
Since at least the 1980s real estate has been seen as a place to park money during turbulent stock times. 

Workers have never been able to compete with that.

Corporate real estate apartments should be illegal. It is just price gouging. This is why we have more empty housing units than homeless.
Anti-Christianity? 

I'm an anti-theist and have been my entire life. How does that work? Christianity is evil. Obviously.
I lived in Oakland, CA for 8 years while attending Berkeley and some after.  Drive by shootings are a natural progression of violence.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-29
----------------------------------------

science of violence

not, waves hands around, whatever this is that the pundits and public figures are espousing
rights don't exist

responsibilities do

We have speech and knowledge responsibilities. 

Any speech or knowledge that when spread poses a danger to the public then that speech and knowledge should be heavily censored. 

1. anti-science like anti-vax
2. inciting violence promoting copycat killers.
Four mass shootings today. 

Okay, so how long before we take serious that these copycat shootings are in part due to the publicity given to them and the names and faces of the shooters going national?
At some point right wing media is going to get national exposure to the extreme violence they are posting. And when that happens they will blame ChatGPT.
 If someone is acting alone, then it is not political violence. It is great propaganda taking advantage of people with mental health problems. 

The point of the gov tracking lone shooters as left and right is for us to hallucinate this narrative and not suicide. 

And the left is.
That majority of mass shootings end in suicide. This is not left or right violence. This is suicide with spectacle. 

We should call it like it is. Suicide by cop is suicide spectacle. 

Political violence is a nonsense term for lone shooters. 

It is great propaganda.
Magic doesn't exist. Celebrating death wishing someone dead does nothing.

Propanda works. Propaganda supplants reality in a culture with hallucintion. People think they are reacting to a new reality. 

Mentally unstable are unstable. Blaming that on a false reality unscientific but is propaganda.
Also, right-wing writers are too elementary to use an emdash -- that is a dead giveaway of ChatGPT.
If T could read and read right-wing media, then his statements about war going on in Portland could make sense. 

Rightwing media is extreme beyond measure. Beyond absurd.
"date-r****t" is a dead give away this is ChatGPT. Date r**e isn't a thing to the right. Consent is not a thing to the right. R**e isn't compelling. It is a confusing sentence that doesn't belong here if actually written by someone on the right.
OpenAI got caught only when directly implicated in a teen suicide. 

But here's the thing. OpenAI was fully aware that teens were being gaslit the whole time.

OpenAI knows the right is using ChatGPT to write terrible things. They won't do anything.
The ChatGPT rhetoric on the right. The left: 

1. Wants to kill our own parents
2. Killed Charlie Kirk
3. Wants to kill ICE agents.

What is OpenAI doing about this?
T wants riots so bad that he is going to stop Social Security payments.
Nuke something.
Here's what I don't get: they are owned by AIPAC, THISPAC, THATPAC, and the billionaires. They don't need a single penny from us. So why bother with the pretense? 

Unless they are just shameless grifters begging to greedy hoarde more.
Yeah. What we want to build is mesh society. Democracy is hierarchy and always concentrates money at the top. Time to topple capitalism and hierarchy. Go mesh.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
I might move to Portland, OR.

Why? You ask.

Because I can then apply for political asylum because the President said it is a war-torn city. I have to escape the nuclear fallout.
I was at UC Berkely from 1993-1998. Mozilla was invented in 93, birth of the web. 1

These two jack a**ses at Stanford gave a graduate seminar in Google design.

1. Stripped Linux
2. Striped server.
3. Stripped hash,  reduced map index. 

Student said, "stripping s**t down is not research."


----------------------------------------
2025-09-28
----------------------------------------

They misspelled Mars.
Why? They must really hate paying labor costs.

Google has always been evil jerks. They started as Yahoo!'s search engine. When they moved on they stole Yahoo! ad tech and were fined billions for it.
Mmm, this morning I challenged myself to get as mental as conservatives.

Here is my attempt.

Church requirements for Social Security.

Church attendance and "Church behavior" every month will determine if and how much of you SS money you get.

Admin by Evangelical preachers.
ChatGPT is writing everything in Conservative sites and unlike humans has no desire to show any restraint so as not to appear over the top.

Conservative media offered up proof that antifa is organized. The evidence? 

Anarchistnews.org

That's right. In the opening sentence the article said this site was the news site for antifa.

They are going full throated anarchist = antifa.
Just a reminder, I have al the solutions(tm).

Join an MGO today! 

irreni.social
I've been wondering lately if we post on social media what I believe then can we apply for political asylum in other countries?

I believe:

1. Trump is a fascist and authoritarian.
2. ICE is fascist and authoritarian.
3. I am anti-fascist. 

The UN should announce accepting American refugees.
The UN is corrupted by US money. Either remove the corruption or disband.
The United Nations needs to:

1. Remove the United States, Russia, and Israel for twenty years.
2. Move the UN headquarters to some place not the US.
3. Sanction the US, Russia, and Israel with the harshest measures.
4. Take itself seriously or be irrelevant.
Why are people still looking for heroes? AOC caved to Nancy Pelosi on the Green New Deal her first month in office and has voted the party line. Susan Collins has a better score voting against Rs, and they are only safe votes.

AOC is a celebrity wannabe.
A corrupt system won't un-corrupt itself. Our gov is billionaire puppets. Nothing else.

No denial. Know your enemy.
I wish we had leaders in the US this coherent and Democratic. Bernie Sanders might be the closest  doesn't compare. He only just this month used the world genocide for Gaza. Coward. This Slav President is not. 

Another outstanding and heart-warming speech at the UN.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=YUpK...
Impressed with the Colombian President here standing up to T. It sounds like Colombia will ally with Venezuela if T starts a war.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=vaiv...
----------------------------------------
2025-09-27
----------------------------------------

If my posts sound conversational, they are. I really only have a handful of followers. I'm talking to them. 

Most of my followers are karma farming by following thousands, thereby nullifying my posts ever showing up in timelines in the few hours spent on here. So yeah, feel intimate.
You decorate your feed with lots of images. Mad respect follow back.
Get out of your head and into theirs.

Or die.
I will say it does help to be a free thinker. Unconstrained by polite society emotions.
If you don't believe these people are capable of this then that is their cover.

As Stalin said, kill one person it is murder. Kill millions it is a statistic.
T won't nuke DC, of course. They will pin it on some patsy as terrorism, a terrorist that committed suicide by conveniently being at the blast epicenter.
If T nukes the US he will create the necessary conditions to declare martial law. Especially if he nukes DC.
If I were a tech bro I would have T nuke within the US.  This will confuse the world as to taking any action. They will get away with it.
Currently the tech bro plan is to withhold modern medicine and let disease kill us off. They are behind the anti-vax propaganda.

But how long until they grow impatient and resort to nukes? 

Probably only as long as it takes for them to get their hands on nukes.
This is happening people. 

As Rage Against The Machine wrote: Wake up.

No denial. Know your enemy. Peter Thiel.
Thiel doesn't believe in Christianity. He just wants the mass killing of end times.
You won't  believe they will kill billions. Yet Thiel is out there today preaching Armageddon. Armageddon is the original Thanos story. Only Christianity's version of effective altruism is privelege, not random like Thanos. God decides who lives and only 100,000 will by some tellings.
What Thanos did and the tech bros want is what they call effective altruism. Unthinkable killing today to reduce population for future life that can sustain. 

They unthinkable part of the billions they want to kill is what they are using as cover. You can't believe it.
AI is literally the Thanos delimma. Destroying life by using needed water and energy.

Thanos saw this environment and decided the solution wasn't to stop AI, but rather kill off half the population to allow tech to advance.

This is the tech bro agenda and they are not hiding it. And they want 90%.
I find it telling that comic book writers picked up on complexity growth being unsustainable and created the Thanos story. I didn't read comics and only learned about the 50% killing of all life to manage complexity in the theaters, like most people.
This is just a reminder that I have all the answers(tm) having been planning for this moment for decades.

Join an MGO! Today!

Irreni.social
We need big change to survive or billions will die. 

This is why conservativism is so offensive. Going back to previous times that only support a smaller population of those times means death. We need to abolish the very concept of conservatism from culture writ large. Conservatism is death.
Conciousness can be defined as real-time instinct updates. When defined this way then courage can be defined as the will to update our instincts with big change. We need big change. We need to leave Democracy behind and embrace mesh. 

Have courage.
Mesh society that limits hierarchy to the smallest of scales, within the MGO, is the future. This isn't a uniquely American problem. Americans have the exact same human nature as everyone else. We are everyone else, literally.  Eugenics is scientifically opposite of reality. Rascism is for idiots.
Democracy cannot ever succeed. Not ever. Fear votes for fear. Tech creates increasing unknown for the average IQ. 

We need to dump Democracy and hierarchy. Now.
This fear will harden gated communities. Gentrification we are already experiencing will incorporate military defenses. Suburbs were the same reaction.

The US will become Latin America. In Colombia civilization literally only exists in cities. Rural areas are run by thugs.
The implication is AI will become worshipped like god. Genetically engineered people will become the privilege  of the rich. They will make themselves gods.
Sci-fi writers saw no way out of this dilemma. Fear is in our brain stem. The root and foundation of human thought.
We simply can't cram enough required knowledge into K-12 education to keep pace with science advancing.

We are cooking ourselves.

 I forget who said it, but we are more ignorant about the tach created than the prehistoric were about the natural world that we the common person understands today.
As Mark Twain put it, Congress is full of idiots, but I repeat myself. Idiots can't make policy for society with exponential complexity growth due to the pace of scientific advancement. Fear will eventually overtake. We fear the unknown and tech is increasingly out of the reach of the average IQ.
We as a country are about to create a fear based culture. 

Sci-fi writers have long predicted this for one simple fact: we fear what we don't understand.

 We shadow box tech advancement. 

For fear then dystopia tropes overran sci-fi like with Dune or Star Wars. Star Trek is an exception.
FDR's admonishment about fear has two components:

1. Negative feedback loops are undesirable and require deliberate effort to find off

2. Only human. Americans are just like everyone else. 

Don't get too big for your britches as they said when I was growing up.
"The only thing we have to fear is fear itself." -FDR

Fear based, safety propaganda culture is a negative feedback loop. Positive productive people will abandon this country, further concentrating a national set of people of the bullies and those who are bullied.
Your instincts are sound. The tension is that those making policy about science don't remotely understand science and this gets ever worse as tech and science compound complexity over time. Democracy doesn't scale to complexity as people vote mirrors of themselves and their fears.

ICE education

www.youtube.com/watch?v=dRn9...
Definitely a puzzle picture.
TL;DR: this is a shakedown.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-26
----------------------------------------

Which is more unbelievable:

1. Bullets with ANTI-ICE own them
2. Conservatives believing we believe it.

Personally I think that T should just calling us space aliens. It would be more fun and boost sales of the National Enquirer.
Dead men tell no tales, nor write messages on bullets.
Crypto is fiat currency.
1. The majority of Crpto owners don't understand block chain or any aspect of crypto technology. 
2. The more the public adopts crypto, the more it becomes a brand by ignorance.
3. The more public adopts crypto the larger the majority treats it like fiat.
4. Crypto is fiat.
Bitcoin is meme coin.
In 2008:
1. Economic crisis
2. Bitcoin "invented"
3. 0% interest, free money for billionaires, Bs. 
4. Bs pump free money into Bitcoin
5. Bs spend millions pumping, aka spectacle, on Bitcoin
6. Bitcoin is meme coin
Dear @bsky.app bugs:

1. Android 
2. Restart app daily
3. Behavior since Jan.
4. Bug: images don't render. Followed soon by images won't save. 
5. Work around: restart phone.
So if we want to solve the unethical problems of free-lunch click bait, then we need to eliminate hierarchy. 

That means mesh society. That means Irreni World Scale. 

So join an MGO today! Or forever be cursed to be ruled by the likes of free-lunch Trumps.

Irreni.social
Democracy is dead. However, popularity over ethics is not the root cause. Hierarchy is. Popularity is shaped. That shape comes from money. That money comes from the rich. The rich are the priority of patriarchy and, more generally, hierarchy.
Click bait is just a synonym for public spectacle. That's it. Our Democracy as populist movement is just he who generates the most spectacle, the most click bait, wins. Trump.
There is no such thing as a free lunch, except click bait. Crypto would have 0 value if not for "to the moon" click bait. Click bait is in the name: meme coin. Bitcoin is meme coin.
Mass shootings are American porn. American spectacle. Trump is American porn, American spectacle.

Click bait porn as politics is only going to get worse until we recognize the ethics and respond responsibly.
Click bait for dollars is killing us. Trump is porn. Far worse than what we define as porn. Reporting was that Trump porn earned him billions in free advertising his first campaign. Yet Trump porn is even greater today.
The politocal we that wants to home the homeless can't elect those politicians. We are a minority. We are not popular. This is the fickle nature of Democracy. The media makes things popular, not ethical. Click bait.
We are failing ethics terribly precisely because at its core Democracy prioritizes popularity over ethics. 

Except when it is personal. Then we want free bus rides. By we I mean the political we.
100,000 people die every year from drug overdose. Any claims that ignoring news of mass shootings is unethical because of ignorance equally applies to no reporting on  people dying of drug overdose or lack of health care.
So you have an ethical choice with mass shootings. Glorify them by making them go viral or don't report on them. 

We have that same choice as a society. Yet no one is talking about preventing mass shootings by preventing the reporting that glorifies and causing more.
It is infuriating when people don't get vaccinated or don't  mask. It is equally infuriating when people don't  don't report mass shootings for the same reasons.

Yet here we are. Blaming  suicide on political violence. No, it is a suicide of glorified spectacle for notoriety. That's it.
Our politicians fail ethics miserably by blaming political extremism and politcal violence.

The root cause of suicide by mass shooting is spectacle,  not political extremism.

Politicians should be calling for the removal of spectacles no different than banning death match spectacles.
We are no better than the depraved Romans paying to attend murder spectacles in the amphitheater. We pay to satiate our bloodlust with mass shootings. Mass reporting causes mass shootings. We know this. We want more.
It is unethical to promote mass shootings by barking about them. Cops kill more people every year than mass shootings. Reporting on cops murdering people doesn't cause more of them. And,  get this ethics, we as a society don't demand cops report all cop murders. They are way under reported.
Ethics is about society. All this attention on mass shootings because they are spectacle are modern-day,  Roman gladiator death matches and mass media the amphitheater. We only spend millions of hours on mass media on mass shootings because we want spectacle. That's it.
When I started social engineering as a teen, I asked an important question:

If the value of one life is priceless, then what is the value of two lives? Or three? 

The answer is that there is none because if there were then we could justify killing. Priceless is priceless.
Every year 100,000 people in the US die of drug overdose. Another 50,000 die of car accidents. Another 50,000 die from lack of healthcare. A few hundred die from mass shootings. Yet we don't report on the other deaths as news. Or sadly, as failures of left and right policies.
What is responsible is reporting a on mass shootings in ways that don't cause more: such as boring statistics. 

Boring statistics like totals and scientific evidence of root causes and prevention.
Do you have a right to know? That's not the point. The point is no different than using any prophylactic such as condemns or face masks. To save lives. We should not report on mass shootings ever.
Let's talk bad social engineering. We've known for decades that mass reporting on mass shoorings will cause more mass shootings. 

So don't report in them ever. 

Simple. Responsible.
The gas lighting will continue until morale improves

Root causes are loneliness epidemic, mass media sharing the violence motivating copycats, and mental health. But sure, let's go with tone policing and scolding. F off.
The need to move the Palestinians somewhere.
You mean like the movie Full Metal Jacket?
The odds of the FBI saying the didn't find anything after the Bolton raid were zero.
I guess I get it somewhat. The government lies 100% of the time. Reporting on the gov is a big chunk of media business. They have to parrot the lies that the Trump admin puts out or go out of business.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-25
----------------------------------------

Catch up on the latest C K killing speculation:

youtu.be/bf9I7EuTjro?...
This crap right here is why mainstream media is utter shite.
Why do you believe anything put out by the Trump administration?

The ICE shooter wrote "ANTI-ICE" on his bullets, and also stop taking Tylenol during pregnancy because it causes autism.

Elvis has left the building.
The problem with an administration of  non-stop barrage of lies 24/7 is no one believes you. Except those you've hoodwinked.
AI today is just mimicry with zero understanding of what's being mimicked. Fancy mimicry? Sophisticated mimicry? Useful mimicry? Sure. But if intelligence is understanding then it is not intelligence in the slightest definition.
Think about it. Computers implement binary. Why would a computer software by a computer risk the bugs of intermediate code designed for humans?

Further RISC architecture is only a handful of commands. Just use those. The concepts expressed by assembly, C, Java etc would be understood as binary.
Real AI software will go straight to binary. On the fly. Not even assembly. 

Until then it is just fake AI.
If one is applying for software development then the interview will be "leet" code, aka elite code, aka puzzle questions. 

Pass the tricky software questions and get hired. Nothing about testing. Except perhaps "how do you feel about unit tests?".
The sad thing about being an engineer is that in my thirty years as a contractor for over twenty different companies and hundreds of interviews, testing never comes up unless one is applying for a testing position. 

Truly sad state of affairs.
In the wild there is discussion about whether someone is an engineer or a developer. 

My dividing line is testing. If someone ensures their code works they are an engineer, the bridge won't fall down. 

I write better test code than application code.
My justification for my verbosity is testing effort. I write far more testing than the average developer. This is not hard because most developers hate testing. I do not.

In all things in life there is no getting around effort you don't like.
The primary tension with the more code the more bugs axiom is cognitive load.

The number one complaint about my code in code reviews is verbosity.  My code is written to be read and understood. This is in conflict with more code means more bugs.
JFYI, in my research whether C or C++ was better I ran into an axiom with actual evidence:

The more code the more bugs.

Formal discipline languages like Java induce more code.
Cry my beloved Python, cry. As I continue to interview I will have to spew the Python 3 dogma. It sucks that a technical field relies so much on hokum and dogma and not science. 

It is what it is.
A developer trained on all the benefits of a discipline and takes them to heart will write better shell script code than a spaghetti code developer will in Java. 

There is not substitute for learning and appreciating discipline. No matter how one tries or how loudly one caterwauls otherwise.
The hubris and arrogance of people claiming one language is better than another is that they imply a crappy coder will write better code in that language. That has never been my experience. 

Spaghetti code programmer writes spaghetti code.
This is the rub of language design. To properly use the discipline of the language design one must be trained and proficient in the discipline. 

Most developers are not trained on the design of language. They just use them. 

Most are average effort coders. Crappy coders write crappy code.
Being neurodivergent I told the professor that I can't work with 5 people and get an "A". I would have to write the projects for grade 100% by myself to ensure an "A". His reply, "not my problem". 

So I told my project groups I would be writing the entire project by myself. And that's what I did.
Why would I object to a project group of six people? The more the merrier, less work. 

Because. I'm an "A" student. Project members were randomly assigned. The "A" student is the top 10%. This meant that my project group had "B" and "C" students.
You hear this sometimes in software expressed as over engineering. 

I expressed this same problem as a student at UC Berkeley where Freshman classes of size 400 are broken into project groups of 6. I complained profusely about this to the professor.
So what is the right approach? The answer I first heard expressed as a business analysis. A friend of mine studying economics for an MBA said, "The problem with Phds is that if you give a Phd a problem then you'll get a Phd solution."
You have to ask yourself with both TypeScript and Python 3: is self-adoption or cherry-picked adoption of language discipline better than Java with an always enforced, one-size-fits-all discipline? 

Cherry-picked is worse. Type hints are buggy as h**l at run time.
The difference between Python 3 and Perl is that Python 2 reached a level of adoption Perl never did. Perl is still around because of an entrenched level adoption but nothing like Python 2. Python 3 started with Python 2 and has quickly become more bloated than Perl even with more adoption.
Python has gone down the same kitchen sink rabbit hole as Perl. Most notably one can mix functional and procedural language constructs wherever, thus becoming Perl in having multiple ways to do the same thing.
Perl quickly became a kitchen sink language. After text processing then system admins picked up on Perl as the language for system administration. C and Korn shell are limited. 

Then Perl became a web site building platform and so on. Kitchen sink.
Python started out as a Perl replacement. Perl is unjustly maligned as a bad language because it has built into it many ways to do the same thing. Including how code blocks are formatted. Guido simplified to four spaces.

Perl was designed as a string and text processing language. That's it.
Language design creates madness because of competing interests: 

1. Limited use design.
2. Kitchen sink design.
If you ever get bored and want to start a classic flame war of the 1990s then I recommend just randomly saying out loud in any software meeting, "I like Makefiles". The loathing and detesting for Makefiles is like no other. They were prohibited one on team at Illumina. Why? "Because I said so."
One of the worst Java spaghetti code implementations is Ant, now called Maven. This is a build system for Java written in Java. 

In the mid aughts we replaced a Makefile of 500 lines used for Java because, and I'm not making this up, it was too long. 

The replacement? 50,000 lines. Not kidding.
When asked about this the developer said that when he asked about managing that large of memory he was told he needed to go through a lengthy review board process to implement a new process. His deadline was less than a week. He met his deadline.
Another classic Java spaghetti pattern is static method variables to manage memory. We had a problem with the JVM running out of memory in production. We finally traced it back to a static method variable holding all the PDF files in memory for the entire web site used by millions.
The contractors writing the WebSphere HTTP library just used "is a" relationships. They extended the HTTP class over fifty times. That was some serious spaghetti.
My first experience with Java as spaghetti code was in the mid aughts. I was working in J2EE, IBM WebSphere. IBM wrapped the Apache HTTP code with Java interfaces. One class was simply called, "HTTP". 

A stack trace for a core dump, aka null pointer exception, showed a fifty HTTP class stack trace.
In modern language discussions it is common to here OOP be criticized as the new spaghetti code. People rarely go into why, it is just agreed up or not. 

The why is "is a" versus "has a" relationships.

Extend a class or contain it in a new class.
Why this rant. Because every time I go out on interviews the topic of language design comes up. The nonsense of it all is no different than having to recite Bible verses to get past a job interview. Do I know language design? Sure. Does the person across from me? Rarely.  They just think they do.
Python 3 has become that which Guido hated, bloat. 

1. Both procedural and functional paradigms.
2. Cherry picked formality where libraries imported don't enforce the same.

Type hinting and Data classes are here and there, not just always there.
Cry my beloved Python, cry. If you want all the bells and whistles of the claims trumpeted by formal languages  then just write in one, Java. Further write in J2EE, a vast and much larger protocol.
So what this means for the benefits of formal languages like Java is that they are unproven. No evidence. As an atheist I find that offensive. No less than religious claims. This is also why the language wars in software resemble religious wars. Claims of no evidence can be argued ad nauseam.
The controlled study would have been two rewrites:

1. Throw away the first version or rewrite in the same language.
2.  C -> C++

No one did that. No one. When I asked my language professor about this he cited cost. Too expensive.
We have known since the beginning of programming that throwing away the first version, aka the prototype if another version follows, has huge benefit. This is still an active topic of research.
The kinda studies were conducted in the industry, not academically. There was a huge investment of money in replacing C code with C++. Many companies wrote up the benefits they saw from rewriting C code as C++. 

Here's the problem with 100% of them. They were not controlled studies.
When I was in University Object Oriented Programming (OOP) was still new. OOP made a ton of claims about forced code improvements from language design. 

I tried to find studies proving any of them were true.

And there were, kinda.
I'm an atheist. Show me the evidence. 

When Java came on the scene in the 1990s there were a lot of claims about code quality improvement from formal language design. There is no evidence. There is exactly zero scientific studies about software language design. I know, I tried to find them.
Python 2, noun: 1. a scripting programming language
Python 3, noun: 1. Java

I used Python 2 for many years. I have used Python 3 for more years. Python 3 with all its Data classes, Type hinting, and pile up formation is converging on Java. So my question is then why use Python?

----------------------------------------
2025-09-24
----------------------------------------

Water guns with the red dye from fire alarms.
This is pretty good list of resistance.  However, we need to get into not violence. 

Strobe lights, EMPs, bullhorns, noxious odors like sulfur. Throw rice. If you've ever been to a wedding you know they'll be finding that for years. Perhaps sand. Rice not good www.dhs.gov/news/2025/09... birds.
"If you think education is expensive, try ignorance." - 1980s PSA

This was supposed to be a warning. Not a party platform for wasting money.
Christians demonizing mental differences is nothing new. They also are quick to dismiss with fake remedies. Going after trans and autism is on brand in Christian history, attacking what they see as abnormal.

Down with religion.
I remember when PC magazine first came out and had honest reviews of PC hardware. Then it got bought out and just became advertorials.
95 Ds, including both leaders, didn't have enough spine to vote no on a memorial for a white supremist. They have no spine to shutdown the gov.
My niche interest since childhood is social engineering. Get some today!

Irreni.social
You know what is real? FASD, fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.

Alcohol, the drug that dare not be named.
www.canada.ca/en/public-he...
1. It's a shakedown.
2. Telling people to drink bleach and UV their lungs during Covid was dumber and more dangerous. No one is giving up Tylenol. Americans don't give up drugs.

No party could have done a worse job than the Democratic Party waiting until 2 1/2 months before the election to force someone out.

No denial. Know your enemy.
William "The Bloody" Krystol, a founder of the Bulwark, has been whitewashed by liberals. He warmongered against Mulslims more than anyone else.

Also, I know of no anarchist movement active today. At the start of the 20th century, sure. They tried to assassinate a President.
Well, I've been following American politics since the 1980s. I've never read any news about "organized" Antifa. Further, T conflates anarchists with anti-fascism, because of course he does. 100% hallucination.
George Washington in the 1750s was an officer in the British army. The British custom was the officers led the charge. In one battle all the officers were wounded except Washington. The kicker is he was my height, 6'2", the tallest and the easiest target to hit.
Kimmel should do a replay of what got him kicked off.
This whole rapture thing has me wondering how MAGA thinks anyone, anyone at all, wants to spend eternity with them. 

I definitely don't want to hang out with them on Earth. 

Total lack of self awareness on their part.

They are hateful, cruel and mean.
What I haven't seen reported on is the value of broadcast media, the NextStar merger, versus streaming.

I find it hard to believe that broadcast is worth billions of dollars. I do think perhaps that market is 1.) rural and 2.) elderly. I'm not sure why these two markets would watch Kimmel anyway.
hell, noun: 1. where Christians go to spend eternity.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-23
----------------------------------------

Turtle Wow has been around for eight years, built up over 100,000 users and 40,000 online. Seems capricious and wicked to put them out of business when that model is no longer their market. Blizzard is now pay to play. 

There is no single-person game in Retail Warcraft any more.
My research found that for both Retail and Classic Warcraft the bots, boosting, and gold sellers are the environment and, get this, Blizzard is doing better than ever. 

So, it is there version of pay-to-play.

Here's the thing, I'm only level alts. That environment is not alt-only user friendly.
Since Turtle Wow will be going away, at least in the US, I looked into Warcraft Classic. The reason I left Classic was bots, boosting, and gold selling ruined the economy. My researched revealed that Blizzard has embraced these users as their target audience and baked it in to the experience.
I agree with you, bad word choice. I was trying connote the loneliness epidemic and lack of community many feel today that religion blame on atheism that is also invalid criticism. I should have said "invalid criticism".
Yeah, absence does get replaced. I should have air quoted criticism.
I have met one philosophy professor that I appreciate. He defined philosophy as the process of communicating better. Be a better writer and speaker as a practice. That is philosophy I can sponsor.
Philosophy in public  discourse is nicely defined as the love of ideas and language as a closed system. 

No thanks.
I called myself a philosopher, someone constantly correcting ideas I got wrong. The definition tacks close enough that it didn't appear wrong. 

Then I learned the definition of philosophy is sophistory. Intellectual masterbation that traps people in an ego web that defies science and reality.
You ever have one of those words you got the defintion wrong as a child and it wasn't until way, way, way too late in life that you figured that out? 

For me that word was philosophy. I thought philosophy was shared reasoning of correcting false ideas. My parents were wrong about most things.
In case it hasn't been made clear, I'm one of those who thinks philosophy and talk psychiatry are quackery.
Honestly, if put to the test of choosing between the Bible or Aynd Rand as which has worse ideas, I couldn't tell ya.
Any time someone starts in on Aynd Rand, then I either want to:

a. Slowly walk back away
b. Take my shoe off and throw it at the wall
c. Put on beige dockers and look boring
If you want to get a sense of the tech bros without reading their bile they call manifestos, then Snow Crash is a good place to start. Aynd Rand is a waste of time. Rand is one of those authors where one Cliff Notes book for her entire published writing would still be too much. :)
And yes it is Neil Stephenson that wrote the book Snow Crash that the tech bros took their sea steading idea from.  They took the tech dystopia as inevitable gospel instead of a warning.
Large scale mental exercise. I find Neil Stephenson laborious and overwrought, but good.

4. The Seven Eves by Neil Stephenson. Time span of millions of years. Plot is the moon is struck by an asteroid and destroyed, raining the entire mass on Earth.
Large scale mental exercise. This is a gentle entertaing one spanning many books about Priscilla Huthens, a space captain.

3. Jack McDevitt, The Academy Series. A long extinct race left behind galactic mines as  WMDs in a failed war.
Large scale exercise:

2. Verner Vinge. Space sci-fi governing across galaxy spanning Empires at the speed of light in A Fire Upon The Deep.
So if Mesh is too much to get your mind around then perhaps exercises in large scale time frames might help. 

1. The Three Body Problem. An alien race attacks Earth at the speed of light from the Andromeda galaxy: billions of years.
Corrupt systems can't fix themselves. They crash out. Hierarchies are corruption thirst traps of absolute power ever increasing corruption at the top. We aren't going to vote and empire our way out of this. We need to break the cycles of hierarchy. Democracy is dead because it us hierarchy.
It is really pathetic that tech bros are stuck on eugenics and racism. Culture is all that is needed. We've known this for decades. But you have to read more than Aynd Rand and intellectual masterbatory philosophy to know this. Anthropology science is your friend. The science of violence.
So, my Bluesky idea family, the first thing to internalize is that fixing America is a centuries long voyage. The next thing to realize is to hop on the boat and cast off today.

Join an MGO!

Irreni.social
I don't feel left out of humanity not having children. My ideas are my children. Mesh society and Irreni World Scale as an implementation are my breeding. They are the answer to religion, to hierarchy, and to eliminating the cycle of Empires by eliminating Empires.
Consciousness replaces the breeding of eugenics. We pass on new consciousness to our children over the generations. This is why religion and conservatives are so hostile to "woke", "CRT", and the Oxford comma. The actual replacement theory is not breeding, but ideas creating new conciousness.
So the answer to replacing religion is also the answer to hierarchy and the perpetual dystopian cycles of Empires crashing out. We need genetic engineering of evolution. However, what eugenics got wrong is this is not a breeding solution.
Instant gratification of capitalism is killing us. We need to plan on evolutionary time scales to manage human nature until genetic engineering comes online.
Mesh society then requires evolutionary change built into its design. This is the aspect missed by sci-fi writers and speculative social engineering. 

Irreni World Scale is a multi-century design based on Internet time. It has to be so in order to erase hierarchy nature.
Replacing hierarchy requires, in a very real sense, genertic engineering to write out hierarchy. We don't  have that tech yet, sadly. We still need to rely on the long time periods of evolution.
Mesh society is hard to conceive because free will doesn't exist. We are mosquitos tapped in amber, timeless nature. Hard is not impossible though.

The religious challenge then to provide any alternative is a more general problem of hierarchy replacement challenge.
Today in America we feel trapped in an Empire's dying cycle, helpless and impotent. Religion mocking us with end times, told us so, rapture.
Star Trak & sci-fi in general recognized the inherent flaws in hierarchy, but never could reach free-thinking escape velocity out it. That I've read. And modern sci-fi abandoned social engineering thought experiments and settled into Star Wars type perpetual dystopia. This is where we are at today.
We really need air quotes added to the punctuation set of languages for words like atheism. :)
My favorite portrayal of the cycle of Empires is Roger Zelazny's immortal rebel, the Steel General. A golem of steel that is destroyed each fall of a large Empire, only to be re-assembled at the next rebellion cycle. The death knell of an Empire.
Sci-fi writers are prisoners of their culture even as free thinkers. Most posited a helpless future of perpetual Empires rising and falling like in Star Wars. The cycle of Empires is unavoidable in hierarchy.
The plot of most Star Trek can be summarized as incomplete mesh society. Sci-fi in general and Star Trek specifically main drama is hierarchy versus mesh.  We can't imagine life without hierarchy, yet hierarchy makes no sense. The command structure of Starfleet is forever drama.
Sci-fi that I've read struggled with realizing mesh society. But pieces are there. They identified juxtaposed cultures a of antithetical morals are necessary, just not how.
Star Trek always struggled with justifying Klingons being a top science culture that invented cloaking tech derived from a warrior society.

It doesn't make sense.

 The Vulcans, oth, are an example of both warrior and top science culture.
One common mesh society trope in sci-fi is the warrior caste, like the Klingons in Star Trek trope. Most people will not be warriors, violence is counterproductive. Except when heavy risk, low odds of survival challenges present. Then a species needs a warrior gene set.
What are the traits of mesh society? No hierarchy? 
1. Micro identity = optimal freedom
2. Opposition morality, must be kept separated.
3. Group effort, projects, define the mesh connections.
4. Opposition projects, projects that would destroy each other if allowed to overlap.
Theists have a valid criticism of "atheism": what culture do you all offer to replace religion? A free people wouldn't have a single identity, nation, or religion. What does that look like? No hierarchy, but mesh society.
Death of a dominant culture and its religion. Daniel Dennet predicted this back in the 1990s. The Internet dispells religions and myths. This is why Dennet wasn't as outspoken as the other New Atheists.
Yes, I'm nuerodivergent and not so social. This would be for Irreni. MGOs should break away from monopolies as a practice.
This looks interesting. Github is Microsoft. Own your host. @tangled.org
Tech bros are not hiding it. They have documented their ideal size of world population is 1 billion. The call it effective altruism.
You know what you need? right? An MGO,  a corp. of fixed size 30 people for pooling resources and also taking advantage of corp. tax breaks. Any who, with this whole Disney thing then 30 people pooling owned video content can provide a meaningful internal streaming experience.

irreni.social
I missed the memo about betting  on when the makers of Tylenol pay bribe, I mean pay a fine settling an autism lawsuit. Like what's the over/under?
----------------------------------------
2025-09-22
----------------------------------------


Reputation laundering for cash.
We had to "heal". Just in case you are pinning your hopes the Ds will prosecute the Rs.
Just a reminder how Nancy Pelosi became the worst speaker of the house on day one. 

She unilaterally decided to not investigate any war profiteering or crimes of the Bush admin. 

If she had prosecuted all those m f'ers then that would have set back the Republican party for a generation.
It is a good history to read about. Hawthorne wrote the story "The Maypole" about this I think.
 A British rich kid's son got kicked out and was on the Mayflower. He despised the pompous pilgrims and lived with the natives. He would dance naked and such to annoy the pilgrims. Good times.
And to all these right-wingers condemning "celebrating deaths"? Please. Ds and Rs both celebrated assasinating Osama Bin Laden. It's probably the most iconic photo of the Obama presidency. You all celebrate death.
As far as I'm  concerned we moved beyond MAD, mutually assured destruction, from being a deterrence to being machismo. You know, driving without a seat belt.
Trump is going to use nukes. He wants that bad a** reputation. Better than Putin. I just hope he doesn't nuke Maine trying to hit Australia.
We don't declare war any more. The "continuing resolution" for armed force approval in Iraq has been used in eight other countries that I know of. Congress critters bellyaching about, "only Congress can declare war" , please. Explain how the Iraq approval legally justified Lybia. Cowards.
As an atheist, I am confused why "no evidence" was not a problem in the war on terror but is for these boats. We'll have to unwind the entire war on terror illegality to make those boat attacks "illegal".

No evidence is offensive. That boat has sailed.
I mean, h**l, it is now an old trope in US cop shows to have a Fed walk in and designate someone as a terrorist and whisk them away without rights after that.
The US established that all that is legally needed is a "terrorist" label of no evidence and people can be tortured and killed without trial.
Isr**l is taking advantage of Bush era normalizing "collateral damage" to the tune of recent estimates of 14/15 people killed are collateral damage in Gaza. We, the American People, let Bush desensitize us to wanton killing of civilians. On flimsy labeling of "terrorist".
Bush trashed the Constitution and International law. No habeas corpus. We bombed so many civilians that we have internalized "collateral damage" as nothing to see here. Yet, blowing up 3 three Venezualan boats has us clutching pearls? Please.
I remember many years ago I somehow stumbled on drone video on YouTube where drones were blowing people up with commentary by the remote pilot. I'm pretty sure those targets had no trial. They were terrorists because of something called "intel". Yesterdays terrorist is today's drug dealer.
Bush named prisoners of war, "enemy combatants",  legally just to get around the Geneva convention terms for POWs. Set up Gitmo and threw people in prison indefinitely and tortured them. T is just vanilla evil blowing up Venezualan boats. How soon we forget history. So many bombs.
Just a reminder Obama used drones to murder people too, including US citizens. Bush gave bounty money to Afghans to turn in people for murder. The only evidence we had they were "terrorists" was they said so. Saddam didn't commit 9/11.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-21
----------------------------------------

So Trump on the day of the K killing declared war on the left, but Manchin is saying T is a uniter, not a divider. T then goes on to declare anti-facism a terrorist organization thereby claiming to be fascist. 

The cognitive dissonance needed to be conservative is truly unbelievable.
What I found most interesting about the payment processing reporting is that they froze payments for legal work done that later became illegal. Seems hardly legal or fair.
First the came for porn. The payment processors are building out new infrastructure for banning payments. Using porn. Then they'll come for political opponents. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=ECpW...
Sometimes more is not better, sometimes more is just more.

Companies like Ilumina are in the Instant Pot cycle. Instant Pot is a great pressure cooker. But, it saturated the market and then filed for bankruptcy based on chasing growth.
The irony of the rise of billionaire effective altruism coincides with the end of phase 4 of the Marvel cinematic universe. Thanos "only" wanted to kill 1/2 of all humans. Tech bros want to kill 90%.
The unknown to me is effective altruism. Are all the billionaires okay with reducing world population to one billion to address climate change? No idea if Theil wins.

It is not eugenics though. It is far worse. They want to kill 8 billion people by simply withholding medical tech.
As global revenue declines because whites are a small percentage of the market, then the rich will ditch white supremacy because they like green supremacy more. 

Trump is 2008. It is about picking winners. The tech bro billionaires becoming the energy billionaires, replacing the old gaurd.
It is time to face reality: the "left" rich realized a global economy was lucrative. Huge markets. DEI to the rich was always capitalist strategy to increase global revenue.
Bill Gates charities are about his public image. He's not on the left. 

The rich people giving to charities to create false impressions is the reason the Catholic Church exists, reputation laundering.

The Catholics stated C K was a Saint this week. Look it up.
It is full on class warfare. All the billionaires versus us. That includes that left cosplayer Mark Cuban.  If you think any billionaire is bending the knee to Trump then you've been hoodwinked.
I disagree with the notion Bob Igor or Tim Cook bent the knee. F that. These guys are full throated Trump supporters cosplaying as knee benders. Don't be fooled, again.
I find it telling that the only left billionaire ChatGPT can identify by name is George Soros. Seriously, the parade of Elon Musk.  Tim Cook, Mark Zuckerberg. Larry Ellison, Jeff Besos and other tech billionaires gleefully handing Trump money leaves few billionaires on the left.
I left Silicon Valley in 2018. Even then the indepedent/non-partisan registered voters were growing faster than the registered Democrats. 

The rise of the religious Nones gets ample reporting. The rise of non-partisan voter Nones, not so much.
It is funny that consevatives fear monger the Democratic party is far left. Imagine thinking Hakeem Jeffries or Chuck Schumer are far left.
Then there is this rare moment of self-awareness that they hate the world, the world hates them back and perhaps that might be a problem. Just a flash. Surprised ChatGPT let this through. 

The 100% we are right about everything op-eds are everywhere.
The irony of this article is that since they are now heavily invested in believing their own hallucinations then they are losing their fear basis, their fear golden goose.

Also the Democratic party is dead. Their polling numbers are trending the same as Trump's.
Conservative headlines review.

The large majority of Americans are MAGA now. Kimmel only had 100,000 viewers and was let go due to poor ratings.

Disney cancelations, what cancelations?

Sam Seder spells out here why UBI will fail. Capitalism will kill it. My criticism of every UBI experiment is that the scales were too small to effect the stock market. 

UBI empowers workers. Capitalists will kill it.

youtu.be/4Pfn85_iJt0?...
@karenattiah.bsky.social 

Just saw your interview with Waj. Every corp. job I've had there was HR policy in place to give people warnings and write them up for bad behavior. 

1. This sounds like Besos.
2. Any comments on how the climate changed since Besos mandated T changes?
----------------------------------------
2025-09-20
----------------------------------------

The problem that people are having with Kimmel's comments of MAGA is what is MAGA? MAGA is Trump supporters. MAGA is not united, as is the case with Candace Owens going after Kash Patel and then again the Epstein files. I'd argue that a single person doesn't represent a  group.
She caved to Nancy Pelosi on day one so she could live in a million dollar flat in NYC.
So the majority of Ds voted with Rs to pass a resolution honoring C K. This was a no stakes resolution and they still caved. The Ds "honored" all the hatred K spewed. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
They are also using AI to write their op-eds/news.

Because talentless, lazy, grifters defines them.
We need to build. And build, and build, and build. Mesh society. Designed to limit factionalization of destructive tendencies. Unlike Democracy.
It is easy to destroy. Which is why morons have gun fetishes. They have no appreciation for the enormous undertaking of construction and subsequent value of constructed things.

Violence is the refuge of small children, large nations, and conservatives.
Aliens visiting Earth to eat us as food is ludicrous. The energy required to space travel far exceeds our food energy value.

Further, the intellect required to space travel required sophistication that has advanced far beyond destruction strategies: violence.
* Private currencies are not used in Irreni. Direct barter based on computer inventory of ownership is all that is used for MGOs.
There is no debating, "I told you so, the puny god told you so." Saddle up those private networks. Load those private currencies. Dismantle their power. Fight. You'll get no advice that "information warfare is never the answer"  here.

Join an MGO. It has it all*.

Irreni.social
The left needs a pure power response to the right pure power aggression: all out computer war. Information war. That's the response. Not to surrender.
Information warfare is modern warfare. Not guns. You won't "win" anything with guns, ask Putin. No you win by controlling information using computers. Even Alex Jones understood that.
The pen is mightier than the sword, and the computer is mightier than the pen. Violence is primitive strategy. Top strategy is computers. Form overseas private networks. Your own information Cayman islands. Use private currency among resistance people. That's the modern day version of guns.
This is why "political violence is never the answer" is offensive. It is surrender. Conservatives  are terrorists using ICE in liberal cities, but hey never the answer so just take it. F off.
The conservative "debate" on abortion? I said so. Debate on trans? I said so. You can't debate I said so. So F off Ezra Klein. Conservatives are religion: I said so masked as the puny god said so. There is no debate. It is just a pure power struggle.
Here is something that bothered you about that petulant crybaby Ezra Klein's op-ed about debate: there is nothing to debate. Conservative thought is less than skin deep. Remove the vitriol from conservative thought and you get "I said so": vapid, unfalsifiable, noise. Nothing to debate
Atheists will tell you that the religious haven't had a new argument in centuries. It is always dogma: the puny god said so. Same with conservative politics. Spend 30 seconds reading  anti-abortion nonsense and it is all repetitive after that.
I have zero interest in MAGA s discourse on here. Their tripe is readily available in nauseating volume everywhere if you want to seek it out. I spend a few minutes most days engaging conservative news.
Finally, avoid feeding the trolls. I block them 100% of the time. They no longer see my posts and defuse any reprisals. This is not debate in here. It is conversation shaping. So shape your conversation. Perfect being real.
Show restraint. We all get angry. But stick to the point. Remove the overt anger. This is also disarming. 

Is***l is Germany of WW2. How can I say this? They want to remove a group of people from their country. That's Germany of WW2.
Bonus: if you say the US is starving and killing people in Gaza then you avoid certain taboo words. I always say I'm anti-theist and avoid the specifics to stay out of trouble. It's ridiculous because I  haven't studied all religions to know they are all evil. :)
Be ridiculous and dileberately so. This is disarming. Religion is responsible for everything bad in society. An obvious false statement that gets your meaning across but is not worth any engagement. 

My current is to say outright the US is committing genocide in Gaza. People know it's false.
I rely heavily on the word evil because for the religious it has supernatural meaning whereas I'm an atheist. It is a meaningless word to me, just being harmful, but so much more to them. So, lean in evil.
I avoid proper names usually as well as personal attacks. Stick with evil as a pejorative. Evil is a hallucination word. Meaningless, but your enemies will hallucinate. Religion is evil.
As an anti-theist I've learned to speak indirectly. The other day I posted a pro tip to use splat '*' inside words, or just use one letter like T. I prefer r***e to grape. F fascists like T and religions like C. Also, use an archaic 'down'. Down with fascists.
I'm antifa, aka anti-fascist. However, I'm also an outspoken anti-theist. I'm  against all religions. Blasphemy is a victimless crime. Drawing a cartoon or speaking ill of the dead is just blasphemy. They are going to converge on religious blasphemy soon enough.
Or, or, or, hear me out...

...call a blue States convention to re-assert the Declaration of Independence as all the grievances apply and more. Then, vote the existing Fed gov invalid. Create a new one. No war. Just a new federal gov. Prohibit the D & R parties that gave us this mess. Start over.
Mark Twain said something about AI.

 'Truth is stranger than fiction, but it is because Fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities; Truth isn't.'

 'AI fiction is stranger than human fiction, but it is because human fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities; AI isn't.'

Uncanny valley of AI.
So, just for grins I read 3-4 Conservative op-eds.

1. All AI generated.
2. 100% hatred for the left.

It is well known that conservatives circulate daily talking points since the early 2000s. So they all kinda were the same already. The AI just more so and the hatred is pure, no conscience.
Join an MGO!

MGOs have two networks: cold and hot. The cold network is private. Hot network is the internet now. Info from the hot network is "hung to dry" for 24-72 hours where AI heavily censors the data to MGO compliance. Trusted MGOs can share cold network data. Do it! 

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-09-19
----------------------------------------

I designed Irreni World Scale using the best science about human nature  I could find. 

That science is low confidence. Should we just go with random confidence then? like Religion? 

No. We should use what science of human nature we have and build on it.

Join an MGO! today! 
irreni.social
Here's something I have used as a guiding moral my whole life: I don't know. 

I said "I don't know and won't claim to know when I don't" when I first became an atheist as a child and that still holds true for me today.

Public officials aren't saying "I don't know" about violence.
The science of violence is similar to most science of the human brain. It is murky. Murky meaning much of it is personal to the individual and sweeping generalizations quickly fall apart. But that doesn't mean we should just ignore what we do know.
So I say to you this: does anybody in the public arena like say Obama or Robert Reich have any education whatsoever on the science of violence. No. Are they calling for the science of violence and public education? Also no.  They use that ignorance against us just like anti-vaxxers.
The so called Democrats are supporting Republicans with their myth promotion public uncoordinated speech of violent things will radicalize people.  That's just nonsense. People have morals. If morals were so easily dislodged humans wouldn't exist.
Show us  evidence that people  promoting violence randomly creates violence.  Mobs sure. But that requires people to see themselves as a mob. As far as I know protests in the US have never turned into violent mobs in the last 50 years. Lynching mobs are a thing historically. Political mobs, no.
The Democrats and liberals saying implying discussing/promoting political violence will incite that has no scientific basis. None. Just like with video game violence or entertainment violence. None. These Democrats and liberals are just like anti-vaxxers, they are anti-science.
The Democratic and liberal response to political violence pearl clutching  about political violence is also frustrating. Young, teenage boys play violent video games daily. People  tweeting do violence has no scientific basis that doing so would incite violence. None.
What conservatives are putting out there about violence radicalization is 100% nonsense. Saddam Hussien paid money to the families of suicide bombers. George Soros foundations are not doing that.
But radicalization is hard. Games and entertainment have been under attack for decades in the US for radicalizing violence by just depicting violence. Studies upon studies have shown that is just not true.
Human society wouldn't have survived this long if doing violent things didn't have barriers. Mob violence happens. Passion violence happens. Money for violence happens. Familial abuse violence happens as a conditioned cycle. Radicalization conditioning happens.
The American revolution couldn't survive on volunteers alone. They had to offer money. Our "all volunteer" army is not volunteer, they are paid. 

But pay isn't everything. Soldiers sign up, come face-to-face with violence, and then desert. 

Desertion has to have harsh penalties.
We also no that 50% of all murders are crimes of passion, the heat of the moment. Radicalization takes a lot of repetition and months. 

People don't become violent by reading books about unrelated topics like LGBTQ+ lifestyles. Or tweets. 

Money. Money can get people to be violent.
Are people going to violently fight for Democracy?

Violence is not well understood but we do know that it is conditioned. Have you been conditioned to be violent? Ever done anything violent in your life? Are you a psychopath or sociopath? If not then you'll leave or capitulate.

I too went to UC Berkeley in the 1990s. The UC Berkeley administration fought and persecuted the free speech movement students. No different than Mayor Daly called out the Chicago police to viciously beat students. It was the students that were the free speech movement, not the Administration.
First they came for porn. Then porn built out private networks and payments. Then antifa and the resistance used that technology to grow their own networks.  Visa, Mastercard and other payment processors are going to come after antifa.
Countries should start accepting asylum seekers from the US fleeing MAGA because of Evangelical and ANTIFA persecution. That would be Antifa.
I think there is a poetry that people fleeing religious persecution founded this country. People fleeing religious persecution are going to hasten the fall.
Antifa people will start leaving this country soon enough. When this country was founded it was the first Democracy. Now 100s exist. My loyalty is to Democracy, not dirt. People leaving will cascade creating a negative feedback loop. The irony is that rich white people will be the first to leave.
Linux Mint user. I disable Flatpak in Mint because it is a disk hog and an administrative nightmere. Or it was anyway. Haven't used flatpack for years.
The nonsensers who have no clue what the words socialism and communism mean and just projectile vomit those words as hate do the same with ANTIFA.

Same goes for  DEI, and woke, and critical race theory, and liberal, and...
Gong to block these MAGA propagandists.
Also, Klein is the new standard barer for the Intellectual Dark Web. He'll be platforming anti-vaxxer Brett Weinstein next.
Klein is a K-Mart discontinued sales,  end-cap shelf handmirror being held up to their Dorian Grey fantasies. That's a market only one of their own can cater too.
I'm shocked, I tell you, just shocked! How can this be??

/sarcasm off
/ACAB
Conservative headlines review:

K killer 100% left, 0% right. They had been both sides'ing. Not any more.

Gloating over Kimmel.
They misspelled MAGA voters as more voters in their mission statement.
Don't forget to blame Bill Clinton more than Disney/ABC.

In 1999 that blockhead passed the telecommunications act.

This act allowed media companies to consolidate to what they are today. No competition. No local.
Joining an MGO requires everyone to establish their MGO on their own terms with twenty-nine other people.

It is a quest. Your quest. An adventure! Your Bilbo Baggins moment is now!

irreni.social/join/
What should our response be to Jimmy Kimmel? 

Private networks.

Join an MGO, a corporation with a twist: pooling resources for expenses. One resource is a private network.

A fixed size 30 people MGO is big enough to pool resources and small enough that you are impotant.
irreni.social/join/
The FCC is going to come after Bluesky.
Tells us that publicly saying political violence is never the answer is white privilege by doubling and tripling down. Over and over again.

Dude, we get it, you're white.
Had enough? Tired of nothing but platitudes and being told not to commit political violence as if you had no morals until they just said that?

Then join an MGO! today! Take control!
irreni.social


----------------------------------------
2025-09-18
----------------------------------------

"Forcing women to carry their rapist's baby is political violence."

youtu.be/z9Z2vI10Ung?...
irony, noun: 1. A populist that lies in every way to get elected trained his cult to believe the lies, until they don't. When they don't they just don't ignore the lies as people outside the cult do, the cult turns those lies as an attack on the populist as yet another conspiracy theory.
Fortunately I gave all the solutions(tm). 

Join an MGO! today!

Irreni.social
When we come out the other side of this, we are going to face the hard reality that we don't have free will. 

Thought viruses exist and are deadly. We'll need the equivalent of thought vaccines.

This childish notion of free speech is killing us. Our brains are not thought neutral.

We need Speak Easys of the Prohibition era, except for education and not booze.
New title: What is that dress mess?
Tough one to normalize. Almost like the lady was painted on top of a much older painting.
Up next:

K**k's ultrasound photo miraculously shows a halo, an angel!
----------------------------------------
2025-09-17
----------------------------------------

Their reaction is simply a practice run for when T reaction happens.
#Maine inflation. CMP is increasing rates for average usage of 550kw by $17 and then $5  for five years. I used 384kw for $114. It is deceptive by CMP not to include the total cost for 550kw and the inflationary amount. This exceeds national inflation levels. 

@bangordailynews.bsky.social
Cyan, great choice. Perhaps shiny rainbow glitter chrome somewhere to throwback to way younger days. Just a thought.
Poor houses existed in the US until Social Security. 

Today, Protestants can't even be bothered with minimal effort poor houses. No, they want to lethal inject the homeless to get rid of them. 

Evil heretics.
Protestants can't even be bothered to set up soup kitchens like the Catholics have minimally used as Jesus clothing. 

Research poor houses. Poor houses were Protestant charity for the homeless started before 1776. 

They were also Jesus clothing. Still, as minimum effort it was an effort.
Nah. Christianty has finally morphed into its forgone conclusion: evil wicked power. 

Down with religion.
Protestants have become that which they protested and hated: heretics in Jesus clothing. 

The Catholics have always been heretics in Jesus clothing. Protestants have joined them. DC is a new Vatican decked out in gold.

Will there be a new Martin Luther to protest Protestants and Catholics?
Protestants and Catholics are so juxtaposed that until recently they killed each other relentlessly. They created isolated communities. And now? They sacrificed the heart and soul of what it means to be Protestant for one thing: power.
It is too bad the Christian tradition I was raised with faded. Perhaps if not then  the New Covenant Chrstians would be castigating and chastising Evangelicals as the a**hole heretics and evil that they are. This monolithic notion of Christianity is BS, not Christian history at  all.
So Christianity is weird to me on two fronts.
1. I rejected it outright as nonsense and am an atheist.
2. It is not Christianity as I was taught.

Double surreal. 

Sounds like an ice cream flavor name. Double surreal.
Evangelicals are heretics, evil. So are the Catholics. The new covenant erased the old. My church only handed out Bibles with the new testament. 

It seems to me that if any Christain doctrine  approaches being benign, it is the one I grew up with. Reject the Old Testament outright.
To this day it sounds blasphemous to me for prayers of wishes. Even as a life long atheist. In some sects of Protestantism the new covenant no more supernatural. No miracles, no ghosts, no demons, no devil. Just humans and salvation by faith, no supernatural compulsion or evidence.
You know for whatever the reason I was taught as a child how to pray, which meant acceptance. We were not to question the puny god's plans or his mystery. The puny god didn't grant wishes. No, prayer was for acceptance. 

It wouldn't be until I was an adult that I learned how unusual that was.
The reality is we need some of both. We need to have tech to transform Earth to a stable place for maximum life. The objective of tech is harmony among all living things. 

Thank you for coming to my Ted Talk about the design of Irreni World Scale. 

:)
I accept being old applying for jobs. That acceptance will shine threw. I'm at peace. 

Christianity is killing us. They want to transform gay people, trans people, and mentally different people out of existence. 

We need to reject transformation philosophy. It is killing the planet, killing us.
Prayer is harmful. It stresses people out when answers aren't forthcoming. Prayer stresses people out when transformation isn't forthcoming. Don't pray, meditate on reality. Accept reality. I'm  so lucky to have found Eastern religions when I was young. Acceptance is required in life.
This is why Buddism and such are far superior to Christianity. Meditation, visualizing, breathing, incense, and chanting are all supposed to orient you to reality. F'ing prayer is just wishful transformation: anti-nature, anti-acceptance, and anti-peace with one's self.
Later in college I learned from anthropology that religions are divided into two camps:
1. Western transformative
2. Eastern harmony oriented 

I realized then that I'm a harmony oriented person and this was my attraction to Native American culture.
I knew about Native Americans honoring trans people from reading about them as a kid. The concept of embracing the weird rather than demonizing the weird as Christians do struck a chord with me.
Hybrid is a Native American word for cutting corn seeds in half, placing them together, and getting a new corn strain. 

Mybrid is two words: my hybrid. My hybrid => Mybrid.

Native American.
My full name is:

Mybrid Trees Are Wonderful.

I like trees. I was fascinated by Native American culture as a kid. I especially liked names such as Running Bear or Eagle Eye. Names after nature, a painting in 2 or words.
A friend caught me off gaurd when I changed my name to Wonderful in 2011 just for fun. He lectured me on how that would harm me, for like an hour. I was like, have you met me? Friends when you are weird is always disconnected on many levels.
I own who I am. I told the recruiter that while my age will definitely be an additional filter, I think my neurodivergence is still the largest. I will find work. Some people find a focused, just the work older person a relief from all the drama of the younger crowd. My last boss did.
I got normie advice when I changed my name that "coming out" in your face such as it is with a strange name would hurt me. A lot. In some sense that's the objective. Just have that filter applied as early as possible. I own being wierd.
I changed my name to Mybrid in 1985 as a signal. It makes one feel an uncanny feeling. It is an introduction to my neurodivergent behavior. 

My name is reflective of that uncanny feeling one gets  when someone's nonverbal body language is off.
Have I ever been rejected because I'm  #neordivergent? You bet. I just don't dwell on it or feel sorry for myself. I'm dominate culture and I mask good enough. Also I'm  an A student among A students. Life is a mix of pluses and minuses for everyone.
I had a meeting with a recruiter yesterday. She advised I take the years off my college time and remove my photo from my resume. I delined. But couldn't say why at the time. 

Own it. My career being neurodivergent is to own it.
But why? Why put up all this drama? Just nullify the law, cancel elections because speech is war and avoid all this.

My guess is the military is not with them. They are trying to convince the military they are within Constitutional bounds. 

Otherwise there would be no need for pretense.
So while they will use lawfare to persecute, they really want direct power by nullifying the law under new speech  only martial law conditions to bring about Unity. Speech is violence worthy of capital punishment. That's the picture they are painting.
They are building up steam on this concept of smoke is fire. T wants same day trials like China. The Venezula boats are trial ballons. They can't deport millions using the courts. The same speed idea applies to political penalties. Too many libs, they want to nullify the law before T left stages.
Seems like to me they are going to classify celebrations as hate speech. They are looking for a court case to get that concept in front of SCOTUS to make celebrating speech as hate speech.
Vance's, "Beatings will continue until Unity improves" is GW "I'm a uniter not a divider, heh heh" double speak. They are really going hard in the paint on this T practice round. T leaves falling will be met by much greater political persecution under the auspices of Unity.
Conservative headlines today. 
1. It's not cancel culture when we do it.
2. It is cancel culture but you left us no choice.
3. A very long op/ed explaining many right wing shootings as in fact left and not right. There is no right violence.
4. Beatings will continue until morale improves, see below.

I am against the tradition of not speaking ill of dead. 

Partly because I read Orson Scott's Card, Speaker for the Dead, when I was growing up.

Sweeping things under the rug is never a winning strategy. Ignoring the harm people have done is never a winning strategy.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-16
----------------------------------------

This gets off to a slow start but gets it right after that. 

youtu.be/pZ7bUjSccuI?...
So no Holy Grail. ha!
Aye, mateys. I guess we be pirates now. I guess that's spot on brand for T and MAGA.
Our country is being run by complete morons. They aren't saving anybody.
The last time I checked in with our politicians was when Mike Pence counted the electoral votes for Bidens win. 

The rules allow reps to protest and give speeches. I watched them  on CSPAN.

The horror and terror of how stupid these people are is scarier than anything Hollywood ever imagined.
Carl Sagan was right: there is no one out there to save us. We have to save ourselves.  

What he left out that saving ourselves includes from those supposedly governing us.
So I will say this about all the armchair quarterbacks calling Constitution plays: as ignorant as they are, they are still better informed than the people elected to pass laws. Our politicians are particularly stupid.
Our society is seriously ill and the "adults in the room" are the catalysts, not the caretakers.
The fact that porn is being regulated while assassintion snuff porn is accepted real time is a reflection of MAGA and Christian Nationalism. There will be young kids who will never forget that video. X.com plastered it everywhere.
So you need to join an MGO, mesh society. 

To manage complexity. 

Take control. Be free.

irreni.social
So complexity. 

Most people don't understand the Constitution. Yet they talk about it like they do. 

We need to get over that arrogance of complexity. 

You won't understand Irreni. But you will understand your MGO. 

And that's the point.
If we want to wrestle control and therefore freedom from this tech treadmill we find ourselves on we must form mesh society with micro-nodes. Survival nodes that can chose when to engage. 

JFYI, Irreni management has safeguards against tribal faults that are will studied.
We are not free today. We are controlled by whatever our tech overlords foist on us. Smart phones or AI. Willingly or unwilling.  The fact that tech adoption can be universal by our willingness is especially chilling.
The power of survival means each MGO can engage in as few or many projects as they desire. 
Social experiment projects provide high tech for large scale social endeavors, like the world AI to manage climate change experiments. 

But an MGO can choose to just pursue a simple life.

Freedom.
There are no nations in Irreni mesh society. There are no cities or states. No hierarchy. 

Each MGO is akin to spaceship, a stayship. It is a survival unit with one year's survival needs on hand at all times unless in survival mode.

This power of survival means something.
Be the change that you imagine.

MGOs give us all control, sovereign control, of our micro-governments of thirty people. You will be important. You will have meaning in your life.

We are lost in a society of millions and billions, isolated by minuscule contributions to the whole. Just a paycheck.
Embrace the weird or we crash at faster rates from tradition of hierarchy's ever rapidly shortening cycles. The only way to contain that will be iron-fisted tyranny. Evolution is too slow. We need social advancement by experiment.
I'm not so hung up or attached to current social traditions because I'm #neurodivergent. The world is and always will be a strange place to me. 

Irreni is strange. But the time for traditions functioning is over. Technology has made them obsolete.
What I've designed for Irreni is the equivalent of a laboratory. The beakers and chemicals necessary to run social experiments called projects. MGOs are the unit of labor and experiment. 

We need to move beyond individual. Individual jobs, etc.

MGOs are the future.
You will not understand Irreni. The combined complexity of all human knowledge is well beyond a single mind. 

We need to build a world AI, something we can feed all the knowledge and simulate experiments and record results for new ones. 

That project will take hundreds of years to get right.
This means the new complexities we are facing cannot be solved by history. The negative feedback of hierarchy has overwhelmed "checks and balances" due to technology amplifying corruption. 

We need to be pioneers. Social experiments are the new frontiers of unknown horizons.
Democracy is dead because hierarchy is a perpetual negative feedback loop of corruption, a snake eating its own tail constantly crashing out. 

Academics can't get out of their own way. Bureaucracy, patriarchy, and hierarchy is our entire history. They are trapped by it.
This applies to Irreni. It is complex. Whenever people comment on it they are typically ill informed. People who should be experts are stuck in the quicksand of what they know that is not applicable, unwilling to think about new social experiments.
I keep hoping for another comedian who will channel Jonathan PIe's schtick.
@bsky.app  could implement ads or some revenue stream for people making money there to jump. Something like an Adsky completely walled off from Bluesky. Large audience influencers could jump there and take their audience with them and make money using influence audience.

----------------------------------------
2025-09-15
----------------------------------------

JFYI, you don't need Crypto. The easiest privacy currency is issued currency. This is the computer age. Simply track 100% at all times who possesses issued coin by serial number. Then you just need policy around the quantity of fiat currency. 

No massive climate damaging computer farms required.
So, to Robert Reich and all those privileged whites saying political violence is never the answer I say this: guns are a losing answer. The US Military will crush anyone.The better answer is cyber warfare. Create new computer countries with private currency in cooperation with world partners.
Do or do not, there is no try.

Either get into the information age and computer age warfare game, or be overrun by it. 

Political violence is at best just a distraction.
You know what else is a computer country? 

The Cayman islands. 

Guess who puts all their money in the Cayman islands? 

Guess who launders, I mean invest, all their "money" in art?

They are resisting the US gov. Arguably for nefarious reasons but it does work.
Guess what? The tech bros are doing just that, building out a computer country. Or rather many countries.

Why do you think they want Greenland?
This would suggest that the first priority of any US resistance movement is to form alliances with people outside the US to build out an independent computing country.

Do that. That will most definitely resist.
So, whatever ends one might think political violence might bring about is better brought about by building out an entirely separate computing ecosystem that the Feds have no access too.

Which is why the Turtle Wow fight with Blizzard is interesting.

Those computers are in Russia.
The reason to dismiss political violence today is computers. 

Guns are crude weapons of destruction. Destroying the place you live in is stupid.

Vladimir Putin could have easily nuked Ukraine. Why didn't he? Because his objectives are the people and resources that Ukraine has.
So "political violence" meaning use of guns is laughable. 

People are thinking with their gun head.

I understand that coming from the right. Why the left is stuck on "political violence" is just being stupid. 

The world is changing yet we are sticking to old systems and old thiniking.
AI wars are coming. 

Guns, drones, everything weapon will be run by AI.

A good AI with inferior weapons will be able to beat a worse AI.

The gov will have the best AI defense system imaginable, think golden dome.

That's cyber warfare.
Future warfare as tech warfare is far from a new idea. Tom Clancy made a killing on it.

Sci-fi has many tropes about this. Mars. Elysium. Essentially the intellectuals leave the idiots to fend for themselves.

This is not a humane approach. This is why Irreni World Scale is "Everyone In".
The difference between the left and the right is the left has science and technology expertise the right does not.

That's the cyber warfare advantage. Not guns. We can build out new tech everything.

The MAGA crowd are idiots.
2. Create a resistance only Internet. Start building out private backbones. 
3. Dedicated media. Once the resistance Internet exists create media content.

As long as you depend on them they have you. 

Or, just join Irreni World Scale. It already has these things.

irreni.social
If one wants to effectively overcome the stupidty of the violence of ICE and the right, being equally stupid is not the answer. 

No, cyber warfare is. 

1. Create resistance economy using computers isolated from the gov, banks, apps, jobs, the entire shebang. Use private currency.
Further modern warfare is cyber warfare. Any violence will result in them crashing your accounts. You will have nothing. Given Trump I suspect they'll try and take your citizenship.

Violence is a stupid option at this point in history. There is no strategy to illicit any optimal outcome.
Let's talk political violence. Asymmetry is the word you are looking for. It's not just taking a knife to a gun fight. They have WMDs. 

We will be destroyed by any use of violence. The problem is "winning the peace". The military doesn't know how to build, only destroy.
Mental health requires the gov spend money. Violence clickbait brings in money.

This means one thing: no denial, know your enemy. The media is your enemy.
If the cause is mental health due to social isolation then that's where the solution lies: Irreni World Scale.

Why the take their own lives, why the throw their lives away, is just rationalization.

The fact the media is harping on political violence and not mental health tells us clickbait money.
The mental health question is why would a 22 yo throw his life away, however that manifests? We also have a white male suicide problem over the age of 50.

We have a social isolation, mental health problem. But sure, let's call it political violence as if there is any solution there.
Mental health. The shooting was not political violence. The facts don't support it.
1. Acting alone
2. Suicide by cop and just suicide are often times the outcome.
3. No objective, no reward
4. He knew death at arrest, death penalty, or life in prison would be  the result.
One of the drawbacks to be old is eventually everything becomes a rerun.
Just wait for further gaslighting. As the "political violence is never the answer" crowd gets called out, they are going to continue to gaslight us with "political violence is should only be used as a last resort. We're not there yet". 

I know this because we've been down this road many times.
The irony of  "political violence is never the answer" is that the world is going to impose economic embargoes on the US. They unofficially have by stopping tariff related trade. Americans will be like the Iraqis, doing nothing, with the irony being we have 500 million guns and the Iraqis didn't.
The utter hypocrisy of using economic embargoes to create political unrest, aka political violence, all the while saying "political violence is never the answer" is absurd. Especially coming from someone like Robert Reich.

That cognitive dissonance is stellar in size.
A good example of white privilege and political violence is Iraq during the period between Gulf Wars. 

We left Saddam in power and imposed economic sanctions on Iraq. This resulted in kids starving to death. 

Americans were like, "we don't understand why the Iraq citizens don't overthrow Saddam?"
You wanna know why we impose economic embargoes on dictators like Putin? Because the desired outcome is the people rise up and overthrow the government using, checks notes, political violence.
People like Robert Reich saying political violence is never the answer are promoting white privilege.

This short video is a good explainer of this.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=hB3g...

The shameless attempting to use shame is like a toddler using words trying to explain something. 

Remember these are the shameless people who used a video clip of a brain dead women in 2004 "following a red balloon" to shame us for supporting humane treatment. 

No bottom to their emptiness.
This headline embodies the Limbaugh-ification of conservative media as complete. Use an anecdote, a single event, to smear entire groups,  justify hating and prosecuting your enemies. 

They haven't been hiding their wickedness since Bush Jr. They announce it.

To be sure the rich will kill change. So it has to be a slow dissolve or not at all. Mesh builds out one node at a time.  A mesh starts with two nodes, 60 people. It will take hundreds of years to complete. 

That's the truth.
In the movie "A Few Good Men", we get the meme, "you want the truth? You can't handle the truth." 

Well, here we are, a moment of truth. Can you handle it? 

We need to build mesh society.
You ever wonder why so much sci-fi ends in dystopia and tyranny? Hierarchy. It's right there. In Star Wars. 

The drama is the revolutions always replace the old one with a new one. Infinite drama.
Interestingly enough this hierarchy resolves to tyranny has a 21st century take, the TV series Firefly in 2004. 

China and the US merge to form "the Alliance". 

 China is already a functioning tyranny of a billion people, so that alliance is kinda obvious.

Kudos to Whedon for pointing that out.
Herbert and Zelazny both predicted tyranny has no end. Tyranny wins the grifter wars.

You have a choice. Join them in our easily predicted hierarchy fail demise, or join me in mesh society.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
The grifter wars and their hallucination markets were predicted a century ago. I designed a solution. It is that simple.

Turns out hierarchy doesn't scale. The larger the scale the more the fail, they conquer the smaller instead of failing. We are left with hierarchy always converging on tyranny.
So yes, Irreni World Scale is deliberately designed to eliminate grifter wars and hallucination markets. To end religion. 

Enter mesh society. Mesh has no vertical growth needed for hierarchy, only horizontal. 

No hierarchy/patriarchy meabs no hallucunation incentives. Just reality incentives.
Herbert makes a similar argument in the Dune series. I just like Zelazny's take better and all in a book less than 300 pages.

Interestingly enough both authors expose indirectly that hierarchy/patriarchy as a root cause of grifter wars. 

They just think there hierarchy is inevitable.
The grifter wars are laid out as tech versus religion in Roger Zelazny's 1969, Hugo award winning "Lord of Light". 

He argues the tech-religion axis will cement around tech reserved to the rich giving them godlike powers and then making themselves unto gods.
If you guessed Irreni World Scale as the solution to grifter wars then you get the "ding ding ding'. 

Sci-fi has long predicted the grifter wars. The logical conclusion is that religion rises again to generate hallucintion. 

You can see this in Herbert's  Dune series.
The great grifter wars has taken everyone off gaurd. The current dominate players are as arrogant as they are rich. That means their "control" of society is also an illusion they believe.

So the question is, how do fight a grifter war?

Guess, :).
The great grifter wars are just starting. There is an axis with tech and religion. That axis will implode the nanosecond they estimate they don't need each other, perhaps sooner.

The rest of the world is not prepared. They aren't aware they are even in grifter wars or a new hallucination market.
Cults and tribes eventually burn out due to being insular. However, this hallucination market is going to grow bigger with AI displacing skilled jobs.

Those skilled are going to be the best at hallucination. 

The circular firing squad on the right is a bubble that will pop. But more will follow.
For me, the great grifter wars are just something I already am equipped to handle: being mislead. Only instead of my own mind it is society joining me a daily struggle to keep it together.
The great grifter wars are h**l on Earth for normies, unequipped to fend off the onslaught.

I kid that it took my entire childhood to come online being #neurodivergent.

It is not just hallucinations, but sensory overload. The meltdowns.

Some of us are able to persevere and live in society as is.
What Fotune magazine didn't predict about service jobs is that they would ignite grifter wars. They didn't predict a new manufacturing sector: hallucinations. 

We are literally making ourselves insane as a market.

Religion has always been in that business. But, they had boundaries imposed.
The great grifter wars was predicted by Fortune Magazine back in 1992. Before selling out to Time-Warner they did good journalism.

They predicted computers meant the end of jobs in 1992. They further predicted service sector jobs would be everything.

What they didn't predict was...
The great grifter wars are late stage capitalism driven. No jobs, low pay gig jobs driven. People need to eat.

So we create hallucinations and sell them. Nothing for money. Money for nothing.
The great grifter wars include influencers crafting narratives. Some tack to fact but all admit they are not experts on many of the aspects of the crafted narrative, ergo not journalism. Sweet YouTube money.
The great grifter wars are about one thing: free lunch. Money for nothing.

The result will be competing hallucinations to attract money. The Groyper leader is a 20 something who lives with his mom and doesn't have a job.
What we are witnessing are the great grifter wars.

1. Religion, project 2025
2. Crypto, to the moon!
3. Qanon,  conspiracy politics
4. Fox News, hate the left politics
5. Media, crass clickbait of all things, especially Trump
Probably good to remind people that tribalism and cults are insular. Nothing gets in or out. This leads to hallucinations from being fact free. 

It's not so much right-on-right infighting as it is anything and everything is real to them. 

Great for grifting.
Just checked Conservative headlines. Something I've  been doing since I've been reading news, the 80s.

Today its cancel culture. The Cs are canceling people over K**k in almost every headline, Europe too.

But hey, woke, cancel culture and snowflakes are the left. 

Grievance defines them.
Bonus, meetings can include barter. Tariff taxes are spiking prices. Start meeting and bartering goods. Maybe even start shopping groups to buy in bulk.

Of course the ultimate organizing is joining an MGO. But, there are baby steps one can take with small networking groups.

Irreni.social
I get it, protesting is a time honored tradition. But to what end?

In the 19th Century coffee meetings were political meetings.

It is time to up the game. The stakes are higher than policing where police are now joining ICE for higher pay.
Protest.

Black Lives Matter as an organization has a history. Are the groups organizing No Kings protests repeating history? Do you even know that history?

Ask yourself what did BLM accomplish? Police body cams? How is that working out? Are police killings more or less since?
Protest.

We've been protesting since Ferguson and?

I'd like to make a suggestion.

Networking. 

Start networking as small groups and get to know each other. 

Discuss ideas. Make p lans. Act on the plans. 

Protest has no plan.
Well, I just checked in again with Conservative headlines.

And now they are going after furries.

We need to start a subculture bingo card. 

I noticed the knitters made the news due to some science show pho pa. Yarn is furry adjacent. 

I'm calling the knitters as the next Bingo square next.

----------------------------------------
2025-09-14
----------------------------------------

It never ends with these people. They will put anybody's life in danger, including the person who helped turn the shooter in.
The gun problem is the food problem.

We have enough food to feed everyone, but not the will.

We have enough heat to melt all guns, but not the will.

Our number one social problem is us, our lack of will.
There truth is out there. K**k was fund by billionaires. Follow the money. No denial. Know your enemy.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=F7c2...
You know what does trigger death and destruction easily? Religious taboos.

Draw a cartoon.
Blasphemy.

Knowing this long history of religious violence privilege, it is not hard to predict the right will latch onto this.
I have yet to ever come across any evidence whatsoever that celebrating death incited violence in of itself.

No science. 

Making people famous for violence encouraged copycats.

So of course the establishment is censoring the celebrations and making the shooter famous.
Lest you think stupidity is a "one side" problem. Academics have known for years the negative feedback loop of amplifying hate and violence doers. 

Yet after Luigi the CEOs plastered Luigi's face everywhere. The same CEOs worried about copycats. 

Stupid is everywhere.
Pro tip: 

I learned years ago to use splat for platform algorithm detection words.  Use the splat. Just the first letter too.

H**l
K**k
F
T 
F T.

It is easy to fly below:

Rest in p. :)
The elite are closing ranks around the notion "we all know" that by "politcal violence" it means "non-state violence". 

The gaslighting by these people is shameless.
I appreciate @bsky.app for two reasons 
1. No ads to trigger, #neurodivergent
2. No hate speech to trigger, #neurodivergent

Thanks!
@safety.bsky.app suggestion for your "bliss" problem: 

1. Temporary heightened safety measures.
2. Post the rules
3. Announce periods after major news events
We've been regressing into tribalism since Limbaugh and Fox News of the 90s. Tribalism is immune to reason or outsider influence. 

And yet people act surprised that tribes defy reason.

No denial. Know your enemy.
No denial. Know your enemy.
Trump is going to pardon the shooter blaming liberals for his radicalization.
Social media amplifies the childish excuse we all used in the playground, "everyone else is doing it'.

Our social norms are regressing to playground norms.
All these maga chuds on the right are seeing the huge amount of attention this shooter is getting and being even more radicalized. 

But hey, clickbait sells and no morals or ethics are going to stand in the way of our money.
This maga chuds just want attention. 

And we are giving it to them by plastering their face all over the media. 

But sure, media plastering the guys face everywhere, let's castigate the audience about "political violence".
----------------------------------------
2025-09-13
----------------------------------------

idiot, noun: 1. anyone claiming a shooting is political violence when all the evidence points to desires for notoriety and self-aggrandizement by getting infamous in media. 

Blackout the media for all public violence to reduce shootings.
Also, melt down all guns.
As an atheist we get smeared all the time as a group. This only makes sense if we are okay with lumping everyone who doesn't believe in Santa Claus as some common social identity.
Brain rot, noun: 1. Limbaugh turned an anecdote into a smear of a group, immediately replacing "Clinton" with liberals and Democrats. Now, decades later everyone has internalized this. A shooter doesn't represent any group unless that group incorporates shooting as its group identity.
1. Replace 2nd Ammendment with one banning all guns and wmds,  especially for the police. Melt down all guns.
2. One month media  blackout on all violent crimes except where it happened.
Just a reminder, I do more than complain. 

I have all the solutions(tm) to all our political problems. 

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
You wanna know why they assassinated Osama and did not try him in a court of law? Because it would have implicated the Saudi Royal family. The same Saudi Royal family who were the only ones given clearance to fly out of the country on 9/11.
Remember when I said I think of Al Gore because he said our response to 9/11 should have been criminal and not war?

We Americans were denied a trial of Osama Bin Laden, denied  hearing the evidence against him. 

Our leaders chose violence over the law and disrespected us, disrespected Democracy.
Remember the photos of Obama, Hillary et all sitting around the war room watching the event. That spike-the-football-over-political-violence got published on all mainstream video.

But hey, not you. You can't spike the football or we'll spank you. 

Reason 10,502 I'm a committed cynic.
The American approved political violence that is equal to what happened yesterday is Osama Bin Laden. We hunted him for assassination for years because we thought it was NECESSARY POLITICAL VIOLENCE. Geez us. 

Then when Seal Team Six finally assassinated Bin Laden they spiked the football.
Sure, I'm genetically wired to be a cynic, a free thinker, and an atheist since birth. 

But that makes me acutely aware that 100% of all elected officials in DC are corrupt capitalists getting rich on insider trading. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
They are gaslighting us that political violence doesn't work when a CEO or establishment insider are involved. 

Police kill thousands every year and that number is increasing. 

They don't care about that political violence. The political violence for capitalist property requires killing us.
If the establishment chastising us believes  political violence doesn't work then why did they fight and lose a 20 year war on terror that killed untold thousands and cost trillions of dollars.

They very much believe political violence works, even when failing for 20 consecutive years.
We fought a revolution and a civil war and they are telling us political violence doesn't work.

This is how stupid they think we are. How little respect they have for us. How much they take for granted they can gaslight us. 

Political violence does work, if it didn't America wouldn't exist.
American political violence:
1. Support Israel
2. Support Saddam and then overthrow him
3. Wars like Vietnam against communism
4. Regime change in Iran
5. Drone assassinations
6. Embargoes like with Iraq that lead to kids starving to death
7. The American Civil war
8. The Revolution
*cough, cough*  <<pulls up soapbox>>

 As an atheist my whole life I've been told  without the puny god I would rape and murder. These same people are now telling all of us that political violence is wrong and doesn't work as if we don't have morality and they are superior to us.
<<exits>>
----------------------------------------
2025-09-12
----------------------------------------

Elites are worried about their security now. Schoolkids be d**ned. Luigi redux. Elites buy more security. And F Robert Reich who cosplays on here as someone who cares about plebs. Hey Robert, start a campaign to tell the elite to live our security, our danger. Otherwise F off.
sincerity, noun: 1. the criticism information you need to understand what's happening as a late-stage capitalist empire is collapsing, check notes, is behind pay walls. 2. Also behind ad revenue, data sharing walls. 3. see clickbait.
Comfort zone is not the hill you want to die on within a collapsing empire.

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
TIL Ukraine has bots on Bluesky. I knew Russia did. I put Ukraine in a post got botted. Fortunately blocking is easy enough and I don't have many followers.
Thank your for coming to my TED talk. 

I hope you found this refreshing relative to, waves hands around, whatever this news reaction is.

Cheers!
Here's a right that only exists in your ego: the right to know. 

There is no right to know. 

Free speech is limited by harm. I'd call the increase in publicly reported killings encouraging more killings harm and not free speech.  You don't have a right to harm people.
We will never do this because the truth is we would rather have the increase of death and destruction than a reduction in social media dopamine hits.
So, is there any low hanging fruit to reverse the trend of public shootings? 

Yes. There is strong correlation evidence that media publicizing these events encourages more.

We could pass local, state and fed laws prohibiting reporting on shootings except for effected families and communities.
When people say they don't support political violence or Americans don't support political violence they mean within our borders. 

ICE is committing political violence. 

America is a violent country.
If you supported the Iraq War, the War on Terror, then you supported political violence. 

If you support the genocide in Gaza then you support political violence. 

If you support Ukraine or Russia then you support political violence.
All the Ds in DC pander to religion.

They are the enemy.

No denial. Know your enemy.
You are facing a hard choice. Reject religion or maintain this status quo of anti-science, anti-vax, religious right evil.

If you are not willing to fight that battle then you are not willing at all.
So, what I say about violence is I don't know. 

What I say about why we don't understand the brain and brain treatment is because religion retards science.

We need to massively invest in studying the brain and behavioral science. 

We can't even get vaccines right.  Brain science? ha!
Religion also stigmatized autopsies during the Dark Ages and so it wasn't until the late 19th Century this changed. 

Religion stigmatized homosexuality and trans people.

If we want to address these issues as they are we need to reject religion. Period.

Religion gets it all wrong.
Religion has stigmatized those of us with mental health problems as:
1. Demons
2. Possessed by the devil.
3. Evil
4. Willful
5. Social rejects
A multitude of studies have shown that Alcoholic's Anonymous has no better efficacy than nothing.  Yet we still pretend it does.

Mental health is a meaningless term, like GMO. It conveys no information to say someone has a mental health problem. 

Yet that's the language used when it comes to guns.
Mental health treatments are of low efficacy. Even if we gave everyone all the mental health insurance in the world the benefit would be mild because treatments rely mostly on drugs that are not sustainable over a life-time.
My experience is that when people talk about mental health and violence they are just repeating something nebulous that is echo chamber material.

For example, mental health is not static. We talk about melt-downs and breaks. Yet background checks have no efficacy for temporary breaks.
So, I've read up on human nature, anthropology, as input into the design of Irreni. 

What we are seeing right now discussed in the public square has no resemblance to the science, what we know about violence. Or that what we do know has low confidence. 

Hindsight is 20/20.
In college I did research on murder. Why did people murder.  I learned that 50% of murders are crimes of passion in the moment. Spurned lovers, etc. Another big chunk is poverty related, including gang violence. Gangs only exist in poor neighborhoods. Politics related murder isn't a thing.
My very first research into society and violence was the death penalty in high school. In the 1970s there was heated political debate so I thought for sure some evidence existed. 

What I discovered is there is no confident evidence on the death penalty deterring crime for or against.
Just a reminder that "I don't know" is what we know about violence.

We don't know if violence is a solution. 

We do know correlations such as poverty and violence. 

If anyone is speaking confidently about cause or predictions of violence they are gaslighting and BS'ing.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-11
----------------------------------------

Exhibit A. 

You gotta wonder if these DC types ever have any self-awareness about billions killing people in Gaza and then saying they don't support violence.
Just a reminder of the US failing. 

The Iran Contra affair illegally supplied violence to Central American countries to overthrow governments. Those governments have never stabilized, ever. 

All these immigrants? From Central America. 

Sure, keep saying we don't believe violence is a solution.
You know how we know for a fact violence isn't a solution?

Because of how many times the US has tried, failed and made things worse. 

I might be wrong on this but children in Vietnam are still getting blown up by land mines we put there 50 years ago.
And it is not just that American spends trillions on war as violence.  We do so even after total failure.  The war on terror was a complete failure.

So not only do the support violence as a solution, but as a failed solution knowing it will fail. FU in DC.
Just a reminder that only a few Ds voted against the war in Iraq after 9/11. 

They very much believe violence is a solution. We spent trillions of dollars on the so called, "War on Terror". 

To so with a straight face that you don't support violence is a solution is just bloody farcical.
Violence is a solution as long as it involves other countries. 

We show endless, relentless, and visceral violent solutions in entertainment with wild abandon. 

Can you possibly be any more hypocritical.
To those in Washington DC saying "violence isn't a solution", I'm calling you out.

1. Genocide of Palestinians
2. Iraq War
3. Afghan War
4. Drone assassinations
5. WWII
Shootings happen every day in this country. Mass shootings nearly as frequent. 

It is a choice as to who makes the news and who doesn't.
I hear the left bemoan that we need a left Tea Party movement similar to bemoaning a left Joe Rogan. 

I was alive in 2010 when the Tea Party kicked off. It was widely reported in real-time the movement was backed by the Koch Brothers. They paid for busing and events. It was not grass roots.
Useful AI won't need to be sold or marketed as AI because it will just get the job done. Kinda like on Star Trek the AI is invisible and they just call it "computer".
The problem I have with "what comes next" today is that the left ignores the right as much as the right ignores the left. 

Fly over country, ignoring rural America, got us here.

Irreni does no such thing. Everyone in.

Root cause is corruption exploiting the weak minded with propaganda.
Protest over, now what?

What comes next?
m.youtube.com/watch?v=5kcm...

So be amazing and join an MGO. Feel the power of combing forces and resources with 29 other people course through your veins.

Irreni.social
When Al Gore said the right response to 9/11 was to treat it as a crime, I saw a spark of progress in DC.

Obama just droned people to death, including Americans. Immoral. And of course so are Bush and Trump.

Someone once said violence is that last refuge for small children and large nations.
If Is real had treated 10/6 as a crime and prosecuted those who did it then the world would've been a much better place. 

It is not just Trump that is feckless and immoral. It is the whole lot of them. 

War is not moral.

We could have improved the world after 9/11. Lost opportunity.
If the US after 9/11 had launched a manhunt for the terrorists. Put them on trial and threw them in prison. 

We could've avoid so much death and destruction in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria. ISIS.

This should have been our moral response, and be the only moral response. Go Al Gore!
I think about Al Gore from time-to-time. 

When asked about what his response to 9/11 would be he said to treat 9/11 as a crime. Find and convict those responsible. Both parties mocked him. 

Just imagine if we had upped our international crime fighting capability.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-10
----------------------------------------

We are destroying US credibility internationally. It makes me wonder if international courts are going to continue to cooperate with the US. Copyright, etc. Like with Blizzard suing a Russian company for outright copyright theft.  The servers and everything is hosted outside the US.
I'm watching the TV series, "The Good Fight", on Paramount+. 

It is a legal drama set during Trump's first term naming Trump in only most every episode, discussing the outrage and actions needed .

It's deja vu all over again. 

We have to move beyond outrage. Or nothing will change. Obviously.
So ZM, D mayoral candidate for NYC, did a listening tour of Js and now feels their pain for, checks notes,  a word use. Seems like Fetterman 2.0. 

We need to stop thinking electoral politics corrupted by money will fix this.
The SC nullifying habeas corpos and now the 4th amendment means raw power not rule of law. 

We need to admit the Fed gov is toast.

1. Convene State convention to form a new Fed
2. Join an MGO

Irreni.social
Food for thought
Irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-09-09
----------------------------------------

I just had a security update for the MacOS. It took 15 minutes. The last time a Linux update took 15 minutes was the early 2000s when it required compiling the kernel from source for drivers.

meh
What change to you want to live in? 

Can you imagine it? Imagine it in our current societies as they exist today?
MGOs are designed to help raise kids.
Projects are designed to help raise society.

That's a change I want to live in.
Someone once said it us up to us to become the change we want to see. 

I want to live in a healthy society. Perhaps my genetic flaws are insurmountable but my upbringing ones were not. 

We can help people raise kids as community in MGOs. 

My family as an isolated social unit was a disaster.
Please, take advantage of this neurological, neurodivergent trait of mine, I beg of you.

I'm disconnected from emotions by genetic and upbringing flaws, making me dispassionate. 

Use that to your advantage.
Sound bites, outrage, instant gratification. This addiction to just now is killing us.

Thinking long term requires dispassionate thinking. 

Dispassionate or die. Now that's a sound bite. :)
It saddens me that campaign promises of unproven outcomes are convincing. I get it, people are desperate. 

However, desperation is not a substitute for proof. Desperation brought us Christianity with threats of h*ll and promises of seeing loved ones again in heaven. 

Just stop it. Admit reality.
Free bus rides and city grocery stores are instant gratification.

They are also isolated from the bigger picture that will adjust accordingly.

In fact, there is no provided evidence they will even work.
You may heard the meme that instant gratification is killing us.

But why?

Large scale problems take large scale time periods to resolve.

We can create large scale problems simply by destruction. 

Our societies are being destroyed. Instant gratification of election results won't suffice.
The journey of hundreds of years starts with a single step.

Join an MGO! today! 

irreni.social
Isolating variables has come to an end. We've reached the end of the line for those experiments being the final word. 

We must change society to embrace all variables all the time as the final word.

That will take hundreds of years to realize. So will Irreni.
Publish by peer review or die should be replaced by simulate by verified reality outcomes or die.

Simulate or die.
Relying on simulation means we trust simulation because the outcome matches reality.

If building a simulator in a field is problematic beyond feasibility then it brings into question doing research in that field at all.

Simulation capability will distinguish where research should be done.
Science today has a publication problem where experiments can't be repeated. 

The solution is obvious, if one is not trapped in the university mindset.

Simulation. 

We need to build a whole Earth simulator. A whole person simulator. 

We need to start relying on simulation and not peer review.
Irreni's design of simulation required for effects on all variables all the time is a self-correcting design.  If something in Irreni is flawed, it will be measured and become aware in simulation as flawed. 

Simulation is how to see the forest through the billions of humanity today.
Here's why Irreni can be justified:

1. Our current societies are broken, getting worse dramatically, and no one is offering any solutions.
2. Irreni has a simulation foundation. Projects are run evaluated with simulations to observe all variables all the time. Something science doesn't do today.
The fatal flaw of science has always been isolating variables. 

If variables are isolated then the entire picture is left out.

Drug studies don't work if all other drugs currently being used are ignored. 

Irreni then is a huge risk, an unknown risk. Irreni touches everything. All variables.
This inherent flaw of universities being blinded to untried things was observed by the Catholic Church. Science can only concern itself with repeatable things. Miracles are single events.

Likewise science cannot concern itself with new solutions that touch everything.

Mesh society is new.
The kind of thinking I post here is new to you.

That's because universities are comfort zone traps. Universities learn what's come before and behave on prior knowledge exclusively. 

Professors don't suggest novel solutions like Irreni with no history. Replacing bureaucracy is unthinkable.
If we are not willing to leave our comfort zones then we have already doomed ourselves to increasing oppression.
"“What we obtain too cheaply we esteem too lightly." - Thomas Paine

If a rich person handed you the keys and 29 other people as your MGO then it would mean little. It certainly wouldn't accomplish the purpose of a mesh society.

This is not rugged individualism. It is managed tribalism.
If you are feeling overwhelmed by the responsibility of forming an MGO then you are feeling the effect of capitalism selling you dependency. 

We must break that capitalism dependency mindset. This is why we must form our MGO depending on ourselves.
Once your MGO is formed then you need to provide evidence that your MGO has one year's supply of survival needs. 

1. food
2. water
3. electricity
4. housing

Once those are established then an MGO applies to Irreni management, or perhaps another management project if they exist.
One of the key aspects of staring an MGO is that it is your responsibility to do it. 

There is no ideology or plan to adhere too. 

In the parlance we call this "ownership", but I think that's a bad word. 

You take ownership 100% of forming the MGO to ensure against information warfare control.
We are all acting like sheep. We are being herded. It is not just MAGA.

We must break the herding to address problems like AI and information warfare. 

Join an MGO! today! 

irreni.social
High tech is breaking society into new pieces every single day. 

Clinging to the what's left is a losing strategy. 

Our society today was not designed. Nor is it being simulated to ensure things don't get worse with changes. 

We are just breaking society to enrich the few. 

Are you the few?
Irreni World Scale is a solution to the AI problem, a problem that I read about as a kid in the 70s. I took those predictions of dystopia to heart rather than as just an entertainment setting used today for movies like Dune.

We must have the imagination to break with our current society.
No one is going to tell you to join an MGO. 

The good news and the bad news are the same: you decide for yourself.

However, even initially we need 29 other people to form an MGO.  There will be a society to move forward with.
The incremental dissolving of all existing world governments conversely means incremental increasing of climate response. 

This incremental climate response will save lives.

How? 

Earth simulation. Earth simulation of all projects will measure all outcomes for any single change.
A mesh design has no limit and accommodates entire world participation, unlike with nations.

World participation is required for climate response and therefore mesh society is a requirement for terraforming.

Since mesh society will take centuries then so will managing climate.
Irreni realizes incremental benefits with even the first MGO.

Irreni is a mesh design. MGOs are survival units. Surviving without dependency on current governments means dissolving current governments 30 people at a time. 

As the mesh of MGOs grows then so does its world capability.
Climate activists fell into the capitalism trap of instant gratification, now.

The reality is terraforming, managing Earths' climate, will take centuries to realize. Just like Irreni.

The best we can hope for is incremental benefits before most of the capability is ready.
Capitalism has already controlled and conditioned our minds to only consider instant gratification.

Irreni World Scale is a multi-century project that will take hundreds of years to implement. 

We must accept we are dealing with large scale problems that must have long-term, large designs.
We have crossed a Rubicon today where the problems are so large the human mind cannot conceive solutions. Therefore we isolate problems and solve them independent of the rest of the world.

That's never going to work. 

We need simulation AI at an Earth scale.
We talk about climate change and late-stage capitalism in silos. 

This will never provide solutions. 

What's needed is to replace all large scale hierarchy/patriarchy/bureaucracy/nations. 

Irreni World Scale design does this. There are only small scale hierarchies/patriarchies/etc within MGOs.
Irreni World Scale is the only solution today that addresses:

1. Information warfare as information warfare, not politics.
2. Replaces Nations, States, Cities, bureaucracy, and hierarchy at scale to eliminate tyrannical opportunities.
Great power means great responsibility or great tyranny.

Every generation since the advent of technology has had to grapple with abuse of power by technological ill-use. 

We are on the cusp of AI enabling greater responsibility via simulation or greater tyranny via mind control and replacement.
The Terminator series of movies speculates that computers themselves will become the final tyrants replacing humans. 

It is far more common in Sci-Fi such as with Dune where a few people rule the masses using computers.

I'm not saying anything that hasn't been said for decades already.
We are at war. Information war. 

The Ds and Rs are both aligned with the tyrants.  All politics at the National level is at war with all US citizens. Their success will result in tyranny and oppression far worse than even possible under monarchy, fascism, or anything else preceding it.
MAGA and Trump are just outcomes of information warfare. AI will make that warfare destruction much greater. AI represents an opportunity previously not available to the tyrants: control of millions and billions easily. 

This is why the tyrants are spending trillions on AI. 

We are at war.
For example, AI is being used to simulate mRNA vaccines right now. If successful then the mind-control, labor replacing are going to use that simulation as cover for mind-control and labor replacing AI. 

Don't fall for it.
When we say AI is just a tool then what is meant is that AI is whatever humans use it for. 

The cynical use of saying, "AI is just a tool", is to provide cover for its current use of destroying society and people. 

The correct use of AI is simulation for experiments of reality.
AI is being used to destroy social and personal health on two fronts:
1. Labor replacement
2. Propaganda mind control

AI can be used for human good, simulations. These simulations mush use real data and be proven to predict real data.
The larger any problem is the less a single human can understand it all, an inverse correlation. This is where simulation comes in. We put all that data into a computer and run simulations. Simulation is the replacement for ideology. 

Real data cheaply run in experiments better than human minds.
A society designed to increase existing levels is not ideological. Data and people in management are known to be imperfect.

This is why Irreni management will employ at all times 1/10th of the human population. The data and human resource will be massive so as to do the best that we can.
Social and personal health as a metric for Irreni management is constantly changing. The current state is the "ideal" state and doing better than current state is the objective. We can measure current states of health, education, housing, food, etc. That's data, not an ideal.
Membership as the sole power of Irreni management over an MGO is about managing human nature for increasing social and personal health. 

Today we are stuck on ideology. Ideology is tribal because ideals are never, ever met. Who is in or out of a tribe is always about one thing: power.
A good defense is a good offense. 

Irreni is designed to make far more positive membership changes than negative ones. 

As we continue to learn about human nature then we can continually make better choices about MGO membership. 

Irreni management has one power over otherwise sovereign MGOs.
Irreni, innovation replaces revolution, engineering not ideology. 

Irreni manages propaganda the same way it manages all control: empirical data. Past levels of health of society as measured against current levels. If a society starts trending unhealthy then MGO membership actions are taken.
MGOs also allow hierarchy. Hierarchy is also human nature. MGOs can organize how they want, according to their nature. However, empirical data is used to ascertain bad behavior. Bad behavior internally against members or externally against neighbors. 

We must design to human nature and not ideals.
What defenses are being offered today to counteract propaganda, on the left or right?

None.

I'm offering one. Irreni World Scale. Tribalism is our nature. MGOs are pseudo-tribes. I use pseudo because they are managed. Ill-formed tribes will be broken up.
We can't solve our problems if the problem we think we are solving is not the actual problem. In the information age information is being wielded against us, programming minds. And if left unchecked it will get much much better with AI. AI is much better at propaganda then anything before it.
This new threat is an old threat. Capitalism preys on our nature. Nature such as sugar, alcohol, sex, fear, anger. Coca Cola wouldn't exist with free will, it exists by exploiting taste and propaganda, ads. Click bait is new heights in exploiting fear and tribalism.
A problem we need to solve is modern tribalism. Being neurodivergent one of my traits is I don't join groups and tribes. The echo chambers of propaganda are fertile grounds for tribalism. Free will doesn't exist and we are always subject to fear and tribalism. We need to meet this new threat.
How is this not an ad? I had already blocked Wired in July for running daily ads like this for Amazon Prime day products before the Chorus hit pieces.

How is indirect advertising not hidden influence? People see this and think it's just an honest review. But hey "dark money".

1. Paradise by the freezer lights.
2. Loaf out of the 9th layer of hell.
3. Out of the oven (into the freezer).
4. Life is a loaf and I want my meat slice.
5. Rock and Roll dreams come true (in meatloaf).
6. Everything meatloaf tastier than everything else.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-08
----------------------------------------


We can build housing for detaining people but not for homeless people. There is no "make it make sense" to this, America.

----------------------------------------
2025-09-07
----------------------------------------

Wanna go on a real life Quest? One of the pleasant surprises joining Bluesky for me has been discovering just have large and vibrant the paper-and-pencil version of D&D is today. Amazing. 

If you like quests, you can go on a real life one by joining an MGO! 

irreni.social/adventure/
"Dan Carlin Explains Why Autocracy in America Was Inevitable". 

Adams predicted it and estimated the US would only last 25 years.  Jefferson explained why we'd become autocratic and fought Hamilton tooth and nail over even having a Presidency.

This "grass is green" thesis is just so meh.
The "left" has a cynicism problem. There are people who think being independent is somehow less influence than mainstream media. That's a problem. A problem I'm calling out.

irreni.social/in-defense-o...
This is why Taylor Lorenz is not a journalist, despite all the accolades saying she is on her Wikipedia page. She's always been a troll and a bully. Journalists aim to be impartial. She does not. Not a journalist.
irreni.social is a Wordpress blog I run. All links are free, no paywall.
When I asked the Grammarly, AI chatbot how I could prevent the "Get Pro" suggestions then it recommend using the "Dismiss All" option. That is gaslighting. That will dismiss all suggestions, not just the "Get Pro". 

This is the bane of AI: gaslighting.
I guess one advantage to using the passive voice, being wordy and less direct is that my writing will not be mistaken for AI. 

:)
I'm afraid I will never be able to use a person or AI editor.

"The passive voice isn't wrong, but it can weaken writing by making it less direct and more wordy."

I love the passive voice, being wordy, and less direct. 

I'm on my own.
I changed  “Building Up Tomorrow Today, Helping Everyone Accept Design” to "Build Tomorrow". Still “Butt head” and “Head butt” is a fun word play to swizzle on. We need a collective head butt, butt head, to shake up our thinking. That head butt is Irreni World Scale. 
irreni.social/build-tomorr...
So, after all these years I finally tried Grammarly. Oy vey! What a mess. I currently just dump things into Gmail and use that. Simple and effective. Grammarly is all in your face with "Get Pro" boxes that obscured suggestions. No way to turn them off that I could find. Sticking with Gmail.
I saw a headline by an atheist YouTuber stating the rise in alt-right atheists is an atheist community problem. It's not.

There is no Easter Bunny alt-right problem, even though they don't believe in the Easter Bunny. Not believing conveys no community. Just a reminder.

----------------------------------------
2025-09-06
----------------------------------------

My point is don't be rigid. Explore, try different things. 

For example, when I visualize I have two different counselors. One just listens and the other talks some. 

Emancipate yourself from mental slavery. Free your mind.
Being neurotypical I always have to adjust things to my brain. 

For example, when I learned to meditate it was frustrating until I adapted it. I micro-meditate for a few seconds. Similar to breathing techniques. I thought I had invented until I learned years later that this is a thing.
If you are neurotypical and looking for a way to focus given the massive chaos of today, I recommend Eastern religion practices. They helped me. 

1. Meditation
2. Chanting
3. Visualization
4. Detachment (burn a dollar or whatever is significant to you).
Who is left? Who is progressive? Who is liberal? Who is Democratic? There is no answer. These words have been disrupted. I fit the definition of all them and also conservative and right. Mainly because I don't adhere to any ideology, just distinct ideas.
My interest is how so many egos could collaborate, especially as they were not beholden to each other. My experience in life has been the more chefs, the less cooking.
The Chorus debacle is a failure to focus. We only have so much attention and we are just flapping like a fish out of water that is trying to breathe. 

There is no right or wrong moral when morals are disrupted. Same with word definitions. The words left and progressive are perfect examples.
We need to focus. Focus our attention. First at a small scale that evolution has adapted us for and then to any larger scale some of us have emergent properties for. 

Everyone required to understand large scales such as world finances, healthcare, and all cultures is killing us.

We need to focus.
Funny you should say that. One of the first threads I pulled as a teenager was American History. I read extensively about the revolutionary period trying to understand the confluence of minds, the necessary conditions for many thinkers to collaborate.
Irreni has a management project 0 that manages the bad behavior tribes default too. MGOs can control outside influence by how many projects they participate in. An MGO can just subscribe to project 0 and nothing else. That contract just re-supplies survival necessities ever month.
An MGO is a pseudo-tribe.  An MGO has its "constitution" and censors the outside world heavily using hot and cold networks to manage world information to that constitution. Or perhaps character is a better word for 30 people. This gives people a reality they can share. We have no shared reality.
I read modern anthropology, sociology, cognitive science, history and so on in order to design Irreni. 

We need a slow culture we don't have today. Irreni creates one with an MGO of fixed size 30 people. This is the slow culture. One's day-to-day is primarily MGO business.
Same. I mean things at work shuffle by power dynamics and I often trip up because a VP is in the room or whatever power dynamic is going on.
to be had about the rate of change. Culture is evolutionary. It moves slowly. We haven't evolved to ingest the rapid rate of change for morals and language happening today. MAGA's instinct is to "go back" to previous slower times. That ain't happening. The world's  cultures are already inter-mixed.
As a disinterested neurodivergent person I see neurotypicals internalize rules. Then they get self-righteous about them. The same is true for the strict word definition enforcers. 

I don't get it and I also find it fascinating. I do think there is a conversation to be had about...
In other words, I pay you as an NYT employee and secretly influence your opinion or I pay you as a 501c charity and secretly pay you and secretly influence you. How is the secret influence changed by the money source being named?
People getting hung up on disclosure are fascinating to me. The moral is that undisclosed money influence is less moral than disclosed. There is no evidence of that. Journalists working for The New York times are being influenced in undisclosed ways even as the NYT is disclosed as the employer.
You learn early on when language and morals are mechanical for you that language and morals are fluid depending on the group and context. One has to build multiple models for how language and morals are used or be frustrated by trying to apply rules that don't apply.
Being neurodivergent language and morals are things I don't intuit and hence take personal like neurotypicals. I'm not autistic but like many of them I can't process cognitive dissonance well. People mistakenly think we are very ethical. The reality is if I'm told a rule, then that's the rule.
It is similar to the language police. A common meaning of words is also connective tissue for culture. Language is always changing. These two aspects of language are at odds. Morals are always changing, language is always changing.
The Chorus scandal appeals to me be it demonstrates people approach morals in a vacuum. Morals are the connective tissue that culture thrives on. No morals, no thriving. The right and MAGA are destroying morals. Where does that leave our culture?
This also should be the mindset of a contractor. Not just boring but tack as close as reasonable  to the existing code base.
Yes we have. Mesh society!

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-09-04
----------------------------------------



Gavin Newsom is a Democrat. Reminder.

This content is rated OA, Over Acting. You have to get beyond the over acting voice work but the substance is worth it.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=BxWX...
What is "the left?"

www.youtube.com/watch?v=G1uP...
Disconnect is correct.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=IRrP...
Gen Z needs to embrace product permanence, forever products. We need this to address climate change acceleration from consumption. Consumer economies are literally killing us.
Mesh society is not a consumer economy. No capitalism, no currency. Mesh is a survival economy plus quality of life economy. This means products are designed for sustainability and permanence. Last forever. This is what we need, our North Star to guide us.
There is no currency in mesh society. None. Computers can track all trade as direct trade.
It's worth noting that from 2008-2016 Obama was President. The Ds are not your friends. They don't respect you. They think of us as pleb scum. Voting D will only slightly lessen the decline into tyranny. That slowing is all they are selling. 

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
We need far more than to tax the rich. We need to strip the rich of the trillions that the Fed should be managing. But since the Fed created this debacle that's a non-solution. The value of a dollar is meaningless, held at the whimsy of billionaires.
The point is we have a new power that is ungoverened and ungovernable. Anarchy. The wild rich.

Nothing good will come of it. Elections won't and can't address it.

You know what can? Irreni World Scale, mesh society.

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
The US gov was badly managed with TARP. The Fed was badly managed with quantitative easing and 0% interest, free money for billionares.
They problem is, of course, billionaires are accountable to no one. Further, the Fed rug pulled themselves. Their ability to manage currency is reduced. 

Billionaires are outside legal accountable, quite the opposite. They own legal accountability.
After 2008 the Fed injected trillions into the world economy. That money is held by billionaires. As conservatives point out, if everyone has a million dollars then a million dollars is worthless. By  hoarding those trillions the billionaires are doing the Feds job of managing currency supply.
Billionaires are the new Fed. Soon, billionaires will start financing mortgages at interest rates lower than the Fed. How did we get here?
I'm  not taking Cobra because of this. Cobra is deeply flawed. You are locked into the one plan you had. My plan is Anthem. Also, my $350 mo. jumping to $1,000 at $5k deductible is garbage.
My first book was an audio book,  Charlotte's Web. 

That's when I fell in love with reading. I was 6. Ms. Raab spent 1 hour each day reading to her class. CW was the 1st.

I sat in front because  kids bullied me being neurodivergent. It was her reading to me as I saw it. 

Audio books are reading.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-03
----------------------------------------

The politics work is horse trading. Give a little, get a little. What's going on today is "my way or the highway" and not horse trading, anti-politics and not politics. 

The adult-in-the-room will be someone willing bring everyone to the table. In not we will continue the slide into tribalism.
On the right, the "No True Scotsman" fallacy, NTS, is used to purge never-Trumpers. It is also being used to purge "Christians" who aren't conservative. 

On the left NTS is being used to purge centrists and billionaire adjacent. 

The establishment, left and right,  is using NTS to purge the left.
I'm a free thinker. We are a necessary part of society, the iceberg breakers. Cynics keep things from solidifying to much. However, that is failing. We need more cynicism. A little bit of cynicism about everything helps one see what's not cynical. Clearly people are too idealistic today.
Your brain online is programmed at every turn. I'd argue that YouTube is one of the best in the game. Facebook, Instagram, Tiktok, they are influencing attention for ad revenue.

I think the people all up in arms about Chorus are naive about the entire media world being primarily self-serving.
Propaganda works. Subliminal messaging not so much. The right does distribute talking points daily. That's been known since Fox News came on line. They are propaganda PERIOD

YouTube algorithms create echo chambers. Proven fact. 

They are called influencers. Duh.
I'm reminded of Dick Cheney in 2004 claiming George Bush Jr. was a genius after a debate. 

Uhh, I just saw the debate? That's no genius? 

This whole Chorus thing reminds me of Cheney. You follow a creator. Either you align with the content or not? What difference does financial influence make?
The Democrats don't get "new media" that's been around for decades. Chorus is just the latest example. 

I'm a cynic. We can't all be cynics and think everyone is self-serving or society couldn't function. But we do serve a useful purpose:  a reminder that trust is always imperfect but do it anyway.
Well met. One question I have is what qualifies as "left"? I'm assuming if a Trump creator applies then they are not accepted? And if someone red-pills in the six-months? Are they dropped? On what content lines? I think Chorus should publicly publish what left means to them.
What I would respond to is if some news source like Chorus paid for content. They post the content  to their Chorus channels. Further Chorus edits scripts and videos produced for quality and accuracy. 

The first reputation on the line is Chorus. Everything flies under their banner.
Here is what I want: editing.

Back in slow media days journalists had their writing edited by editors of the paper. This created much higher quality content than we have today. 

Chorus paying for slop is not a something I'm interested in.
If you needed the Wired article to inform you that a creator wasn't covering Gaza, I don't know what to tell you.  You got bigger problems? Independent creator who gets paid to create content is an oxymoron. A contradiction. See "audience capture'. 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Audienc...
When I was young, and my heart was an open book...oh wait. 

Here's something I learned in the 70s regarding the news:

"Never trust a person who's opinion is intimately tied to the their paycheck."

Journalists have always been captured by the news companies that paid them.
1. YouTube ad algorithm pays creators that funnels people into an echo chamber.
2. Chorus pays creators that funnels people into an echo chamber. 

Are people aware of both? Seriously.
The Crypto economy has nothing to do with technology and everything to do with the billionaires dumping billions into private currency at 0% inteterst and creating pyramid schemes to scam the plebs. That is still going to this day. This is why Peter Theil can be the James Bond villain today.
Worth repeating that this was created by the 2008 banking crisis response. 
1. Quantative easing dumping trillions of dollars did not "trickle down", but trickled up.
2. Free money as loans of 0% interest were only available to the wealthy. 

The Fed panicked in 2008 and created this Frankenstein.
He was iconic in Longmire. Great show.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-02
----------------------------------------

So, just like every other day. Outrage is all the rage. Has been for decades. Can we move beyond it and do something? Thoughts and prayers? Outrage? Where have they gotten us?
So on this Labor Day make a decision to develop the next generation of labor, MGO labor. 

Cheers!
irreni.social
An MGO can have a lawyer, a software developer, you name it. Everyone contributing to the community as a community. Not contributing to a nebulous society of impersonal treatment.
Still though, even as a stand-alone MGO just the basic healthcare coverage will be better than today. Just have one of the members train as a nurse or doctor.

Further, a MGO is a legal corporation. As such then can buy healthcare as a corp of size 30.
Medical care in MGO life has a two prong approach.

1. Medical and dental bays for basic care provided internally.
2. Money is required today for advanced care. 

Mesh society can only fix the medical system when the Mesh has enough member MGOs  to build Mesh hospitals for MGO members.
I should say work for most in the MGO will be maintaining the MGO. A few will work in the outside world the same as today. Their work will resupply and fund non-essential quality desires.

The point is this is a much better living standard than everyone fending by themselves today.
Just imagine if you already lived in an MGO. 

Just a few members working in the outside world can resupply the ongoing daily necessities. Every one has food, water, shelter, clothing, etc. Work is about the quality of life objectives, not survival.
When you join an MGO then you very much will be touching grass. A campus that has food, water, shelter, manufacturing and energy for a year will be reality to design and reality to maintain. Far more reality than being on the phone.
The same notion of "just one size" plays out with container ship containers as well. 

The number thirty is a balance. The MGO has to be large enough to be self-sufficient and yet small enough where everyone is perceived as an extremely valuable resource. 

30.
For example, the number 30 can easily change as the initial Mesh society roles out. 

Why 30? Just 30? Well, in Linux we experimented with MGOs , pages, of multiple sizes. Small ones for small workloads and large ones for large workloads. The 4k page size was the medium size. Turns out, medium won.
The lab, Irreni, is an experiment also. It is the first lab. 

That is what is meant by "I have all the solutions". I have designed a social lab for social experiments where the lab itself is also a continuous running experiment. 

This is a system that scales to infinity. The Universe and beyond!
what I mean is I've designed a social laboratory for experiments. MGO experiments and project experiments for groups of MGOs.

The experiments either succeed or fail. What I mean by having all the solutions is not the successful experiments. Rather a lab to evaluate and verify experimental results.
Someone's job within the MGO will be house AI programmer. Perhaps multiple someones. 

Irreni doesn't design for Utopia. It designs for quality of life. Quality is an ever shifting perspective and then so will be our view of information.

When I say I have all the solutions what I mean is...
On one hand the house AI will create a "rose colored glasses" perspective of the world. On the other hand is the hot network. 

The pros and cons of each will be a forever balance that constantly needs to be adjusted based on the information wars in progress.
In addition to the house AI moving verfiied information from the hot network to the cold network, the house AI will rewrite or modify information to meet MGO "constitution" rules. This may be modifying swearing, porn, or any other standard set forth.

One will perpetually have to evaluate this.
Irreni also defines a cold network, or air-gapped network. The Internet is the hot network. The house AI will "hang beef" for 24-72 hours before moving information from the hot network to the cold network. This gives the AI time to verify new information if possible and exclude the unverified.
Being able to disconnect from world information for short periods of time will be a necessary defense in information warfare. The grass we touch is the MGO we primarily live in. 

We don't have this focus today. We are losing information battles because of it.

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Information defense is the other half of touch grass. Information war demands our time to sift through the fog. That time is our battle loss.

MGOs are survival units with a year's supply of survival needs at all times unless disconnected from the mesh.
Further, MGOs have a house AI they control. It is programmed to implement that MGO "constitution". It helps censor the fire hose of the information generated by the world at large with the MGO "constitution" focus. 

In effect, we will be in AI wars, information wars, forever more.
An MGO focuses "touching grass" first and foremost on running the "nation", the MGO of fixed size 30 people. All food, housing, power, and information policy are established by the 30 people. This concentrates on reality. It also eschews living online.
I use the word solve deliberately. Win implies losers, tribalism. Solve does no such thing. If we solve information warfare then everyone participates in the solutions.

Irreni World Scale solves information war by focus. Each MGO of fixed size thirty people is sovereign.
I currently am liking the concept of "touching grass", or appreciating reality. 

Information battles, like anti-vax, are about capturing the flag. This is anti-reality.

How do we solve this information war?
I find this whole Wired hit piece on the left media fascinating because it is representative of information in the information age.

We are at war, information war. This is the fog of war. It is a failure of imagination to imagine that war only involves direct violence. Hello, Cold War anyone?
BTC also claims that:
1. He's not betting paid by Chorus.
2. Chorus doesn't censor him.

How could they censor him if he's not taking money, and therefore not under contract? If he's under contract with Chorus, even with no pay, he should disclose it.
BTC gives the game away with his video on Chorus. 

1. Chorus is designed, his words, to combat right media with left media. 
2. Chorus doesn't censor.

Which is it? If a Trump supporter applies, how are they excluded? If a leftist  red pills and starts supporting the right, how are they excluded?
Up next, Wired publishes a hit piece by Bari Weis on left media.
What kind of entity doesn't want publicity? Chorus wanting to hide is a huge red flag that their good intentions and good outcomes shouldn't be promoted impugns those intentions.
Taylor Lorenz did not interview the co-founder, BTC. A journalist would. Her article doesn't pass a small test. Chorus doesn't pass the smell test as a journalism school that pays you. 

The whole thing stinks . Too bad we don't have valid journalism. This is the  outcome of anything goes media.
If Wired had any integrity, then they would have paid Lorenz as a source only and written their own piece with a staff writer.

They just wanted the click-bait publicity. Here's looking through you, Wired.
I don't read "The Economist" because they don't publish the authors, mostly anonymous. To me the author is citation reference one.
Sadly, Wired for me has lost any credibility, the same as Business Insider, BI. Both have written serious investigative pieces. 

BI sunk themselves pushing Crypto every day and now AI as well.

The noise-to-signal ratio to me falls far more on the noise side for both publications now. 

Meh.
I judge Wired for publishing anything by someone fired by the Washington Post. Totally irresponsible to publish anything by her.

Wired ran daily articles/ads for Amazon the month leading up to Amazon Prime day. Now this article from a practiced click-bait provacateur? Wired is circling the drain.
Probably a good time to remind:

1. Dismissing something written by a bad actor is important. 
2. I don't know is important. It is not just "reserving judgment". I don't know the full facts of the Taylor Lorenz topic or of Chorus. She has a history of fabrication and hyperbole like "dark money".
Taylor Lorenz debacle.

What BTC is describing is journalism school. If Chorus is journalism school then transparency is taught. Also, it should be open to people not yet streaming. One pays to go to school, they dont pay you. Doesn't pass a smell test.
"Is AI the end of software engineering or the next step in its evolution?"

Says someone who has zero awareness  of the magnitude of installed base of software that would need to the power required by AI. AI is electricity expensive. We are in the adoption phase of underpriced in this moment.
Supposedly this is why, in the 70s, the US gov opted out of the metric system: we would only use our own standards and US made parts for military independence. 

The reality is that by the late 80s you couldn't buy screws and bolts of US standards that were made in the US. And you still can't.
Effortless is just a capitalism dogewhistle for cheap labor. Businesses hate paying dev high labor costs.
Spectrum internet service went down for 3 hours last night. Again. How is this acceptable? HA, high availability designs have existed for decades. In the entire 8 years I've lived in Maine  not once has Verizon gone down.
The contrast between C compiler AI and LLM AI couldn't be starker.

1. C compiler is open source and worked on for no pay.
2. LLM is closed source and devs are being offered upwards of $1 million per year in salary.

Ask yourself why this is and things will become clear as to real world motivations.
The corruption and errors of LLMs make LLMs the perfect tool for tyranny by patriarchy. 

That's the end game today. 

Just a reminder, I have all the solutions built into mesh society.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
LLM results can 100% be hijacked to say whatever a billionaire wants, albeit medical or public policy. 

There will be literally no way to tell what results are AI and what are rigged. Musk demonstrated this with Grok. AI devs have backdoors, front doors, and real-time overrides to take over LLMs.
LLMs shouldn't be trusted. Especially in medicine and health care. What you are about to experience is some next tier, brilliance dazzling, Bulls*t. Politicians will compare human error rates and cost to that of LLMs. 

Guess which side billionaires, I mean politicians, will come down on?
LLMs normalizing errors as correct is the holy grail of propaganda. Now you can start to see why billionaires are going all in on AI. Cheap software and perfect propaganda. What's not to like?
Instead LLM is the ultimate expression of "move fast and break things", MF. Things in this case being all copyright law. 

The holy grail of software is never test. That's MF. That's LLM. Get the user to normalize errors as correct. The ultimate in  cognitive dissonance.
One could classify a C compiler as an SLM, small language model AI. Intuitively you might think an LLM could do anything an SLM can do. You would be correct as a matter of a design worth anything. However, that is not the case.
The irony of LLMs not speaking binary is that assembly/machine code is fixed. There is a fixed set of words and typically less than 100 words.
AI should speak directly to the machine. Star Trek got this right. The fact that LLMs don't speak binary is telling. 

Someday AI will replace compiler AI. Until then I'm not motivated to use them for coding.
So, to whit, when AI can create reliable machine code from any human readable code, then you know AI is viable. AI should only produce machine code. If you say to AI, draw a picture if an apple, it should be able to create machine code on the fly on the device, no software installed.
I have no doubt the simple minded LLM devs are terrified of creating a C compiler. There is little room for error. Wheras errors in LLMs is just another Tuesday.
The point is that compilers are higher intelligence as AI compared to LLMs. They can produce 100% accurate binary translations with intricate optimizations.
Machines need different forms than humans. For an example, optimizers do loop unrolling. Loop unrolling copies the loop code to binary for every time during the loop. Tedious and error prone work for a human. Not so for AI.
There already exists an AI in software today. It is called a compiler. Compilers have optimizers. This AI translates from the text to binary the computer uses. I guarantee you ChatGPT isn't anywhere as intelligent as a compiler.
It is a judgment call as to when to create a new word. I've seen standards where any block longer than three lines should be refactored. A common standard is one screen, 25-50 lines. Multiple screens is harder to keep track of variable state or change.
Words in software are data and functions, nouns and verbs. 

Your job as a software dev is to optimize creating new words. 

Only using existing words requires copying and pasting code. Copying code is bug prone. It is also expensive to maintain as all copies have to be fixed.
I am always refactoring a project. When a project is completed it is always in some state of partial refactoring. This has to do mainly with testing. Testing exposes limitations in addition to errors. Further, the initial code is often copied and can be better turned into a function, a new word.
There is a word we use in software that we don't use outside: refactoring. Software is always written in dialects. This means a huge amount of time is spent doing the equivalent of updating 18th century English to modern English. We call that refactoring.
Here is what I think would be useful applicatiins for AI code. 

1. Translate one language to any other code language.
2. Translate code to machine language. Why bother with assembly?
3. Translate procedural to functional and vice-versa.
Testing is also the hard part. Code is 100% correct until it is tested. Does AI even write tests, build test systems?
Turtle Wow can live indefinitely in Russia and similar countries like Belarus. I hear Sweden now has a Starlink clone. Internet borders get more porous daily,  just as US respect on the world stage is crashing out.

Interesting times. Feel bad for individuals who rely on copyright protection.
The ramifications of loosened copyright enforcement are staggering. My two person corp web site of no traffic had a copy in India. It is trivial clone web sites. Things could get very confusing. Real Coke could be a thing of the past.
I have little doubt Blizzard will win against Turtle Wow domestically. All the US domains will get taken down. Porn will create a new International VPN market. This will also  lower the friction for pirated games and other content. All because of Trump and AI.
Trump is universally discrediting the US  in all areas as well. The world could easily decide to quit cooperating with the US on all manner of legal domains, not just copyright. 

It would be funny if the Blizzard case establishes annulment of US copyright cooperation outside the US.
All Turtle Wow has to do to contest an overtly blatant copyright infringement is claim AI property rights. 

The judge in the OpenAI suit has to define AI property rights of infringement. Something akin to fair use today, only for entire content. 

Copyright law is about to be devasted.
1. The suit against OpenAI loses. If so then US credibility is sunk regarding copyright law. Zero. Countries stop cooperating with copyright requests, especially China.
2. OpenAI loses its case. Quite frankly I don't see that happening. Some kind of exception will get carved out.
Blizzard suing over blatant copyright infringement has me wondering. A class- action suit against OpanAI copyright infringement is in progress. What is the international community doing?

I can see two scenarios playing out.
Taylor Lorenz has zero credibility. As an "Internet Culture" beat reporter she supposedly explained the Internet to old people. Her takes were terrible at best. Shame on Wired.
----------------------------------------
2025-09-01
----------------------------------------

In the news this week is that Northern Lights is in dispute with Anthem over contract costs and my insurance is Anthem. Given Northern Lights is knee deep in debt I'm pretty sure where that's going to fall. 

Cobra is just not looking good. 

Health care is so f'ed in this country.
Sooo, I was let go by Illumina and have to decide on Cobra health insurance. My policy is $5k deduct and payment $1k/ month. Over a year I have to use $17k in health care to break even.
AI violates every copyright law known to mankind, it seems quaint that Blizzard is suing Turtle Wow for copyright infringement. 

Best case scenario is they get Turtle Wow domains and  IPs  blocked in China and the US. It would be interesting if porn blocking gives rise to VPN access anywhere.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-31
----------------------------------------

One doesn't generally read paintings this one is well read.
ridiculous, noun: 1. AI can translate to any language and write documents, but heaven forbid putting a USB drive formatted in Windows and reading and writing it on a Mac, or vice-versa.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-30
----------------------------------------

We should have better options than to just "unsubscribe". 

Once-a-week, once-a-month, etc.
This is why my profile says we need to fix society first. 

Our societies are organized using large-scale exclusively. Large systems controlled by the few for the few. Voting in a different set of few is a non-solution.

We need mesh
Large-scale AI is a weapon to destroy lives by eliminating jobs and lowering wages, not improve lives by orchestrating all projects on Earth to optimize outcomes for life on Earth via simulation. 

It is all so sad.
AI is used in Mesh society. AI is used to simulate projects. A whole Earth AI is scaled to simulate all the millions of projects running every second of every day. 

We don't simulate s**t today with large-scale AI. No, we are spending trillions on AI to replace capitalism wages and workers.
We have so many social problems today because we push away socially challenging people rather than face those challenges. Trillions of dollars spent on wars, prisons, elderly housing, foster care, disabled care because people are not integrated into capitalism. 

No more.

Join an MGO today!
Mesh society is designed to be an efficient society. Putting criminals, parents, orphans, disabled, and anyone else out to pasture like we do today will be expensive in a size 30 unit.
Why would you build a prison with just thirty people in your "country", your MGO. Total waste. You wouldn't,  you'd put malicious people to work and limit behavior on a much finer granular level.
Laws limited to 30 people are best just thought of as rules. Personal control is superior to Justice systems of anonymous control.
We'll never manage climate change with all the current world feedback loops of no orchestration and, hence, opposing objectives.

We need to manage feedback loops calcified as laws today. There are no laws in mesh society except those imposed within each MGO.
Mesh society just has two organizing units: projects and MGOs. No corporations, no nations, no cities, no states. 

The complexity of modern feedback loops of so many large institutions is unmanagble and intractable to evaluate correctly.
Mesh design manages feedback loops with two design principles.

1. MGOs are terminator s.
2. Projects must have 1-5 year contract renewal limits.

Large projects should be 1 year renewals. MGOs can terminate quickly from bad large loops.
It's not that Democracy is dead, bur nation is dead. Large feedback loops cannot evolve fast enough using nations.
Thus the concept design of nation of any size is doomed to fail. Nations are bad design and everything layered on such as Democracy has to then fail.
Large feedback loops are nigh impossible to manage when the entire body needs to both start and end feedback loops. These designs  are doomed to fail by design.
So, to whit, if you want to embrace mesh society thinking then start thinking in feedback loops.
Crypto bros are correct that fiat currency at a global scale is a virulent, destructive feedback loop. Irreni solves this by not having financial currency and eliminating capitalism.

Crypto just swaps the US dollar with Bitcoin. In other words, crypto is a scam.
Better stated, mesh nodes need to voluntarily connect to all loops. We just won't connect to bad  loops so they can't lift off.
The social virulent feedback loops today have no terminus. For example, we can't opt out of AI being foisted on us, nor opt out of our work being used to train AI. 

Mesh society gives mesh nodes power to disconnect. When enough mesh nodes disconnect, the network functionality collapses.
MGOs as survival units terminate feedback loops. They can have  no dependency. 

Albeit Covid or AI, as independent, self sufficient units then MGOs can opt out of any loop at any time.

Each MGO can go to ground and cut off from social virulents as they see fit. The only penalty is quality of life.
Mmmmm, how can I say Irreni solves all these problems.

Life is a feedback loop. We need an infinite recursion base case to manage large scale loops. 

This is where MGOs as small survival units of fixed size 30 is key.
Of course the situation is far worse than I can express here.

However, good news! I'm on it! I know all this and designed Irreni to fix it.

I have all the solutions(tm)!

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
The Chinese came out with a more efficient AI engine and look how long it took America to snuff that out. 

It's crazy. It's CS Trump.
Fusion energy will only enable current CS Trumpery by cheap power. Trust me, the AI goons are fully aware they need fusion and cheap power to continue. We are in an energy race. Forget the new space race to the moon. Energy is the tech leap needed.
CS is Trump, only as a worldwide culture of millions. 

Those of US old enough to have been resistance are dying out. Today there is no resistance to CS Trump culture.

Just "to the moon", bat s**t crazy zealots.

Crypto is also extremely inefficient and wholly unnecessary.
AI inefficiency dwarfs stunted common service inefficiency by orders of magnitude. 

Data centers going up everywhere. 

All because efficiency is not understood and designed. 

CS fell victim to navel gazing, self fart smelling, narcissistic, gee whiz only,  profit chasing culture.
To really get a feel, an intuition just how dullard CS is now, understand the for over two decades CPUs run billions of instructions per second. Billions per second. Yet web pages take 10-30 seconds to render. Billions of instructions just to deliver, "hello world". 

Now we AI inefficient.
Databases  also stunted since the 90s. I went to an SQL 3.0 conference in the 90s. Relational databases are still stuck on SQL 2.x because of analysis paralysis and just plain giving up. 

CS had such promise. Then it crashed out hard. TCP/IP is still 90s 4.x where 6.0 exists but not adopted.
There is an irony here that the same country the textbook for micro kernels was written is the same country Linus of Linux is from. 

Linus went with a monolithic kernel anyway and OS design has been stunted since the 90s because of it.

HTTP should just be a micro kernel service.
Just pointing out the HTTP crime to show I have nothing against Javascript as a syntax. 

Bad dependency design is the norm. Sadly. It is software's Achilles heel. Security holes, energy overuse, and so much more.
I'm  old enough to remember installing application network stacks like Ethernet. It is a huge penalty to incur kernel crossings, but new versions had features you wanted.

HTTP should have a version compiled into the kernel. It is a crime, a climate crisis, energy wasting crime that HTTP is app.
I became aware of the human condition to be blind to dependency problems in the 90s. 

I was in grad school and asked the OS guys, when is HTTP going to added to the OS stack to prevent all the kernel crossings.  

To this day HTTP is not part of the kernel. Just imagine all the electricity wasted.
For example, for Illumina's 16s app there are charts. The charting library is an approximation of Excel. In order to draw charts we install a Excel app. 

To post a comment Word is installed.

PowerPoint gee whiz f'ery is always installed. 

It's not design, it's kitchen sink. Just any crap at all.
I'm  not making this up, Javascript apps can pull in/downlod a million lines of code to render a web page. 

To deliver what? A few 100 words and visual white space, images and videos? 

It's slop. Slop is something AI just may be able to promulgate better than humans.

Just saying.
And don't get me started on Node. Ha! 

Node, am I right?
Java has web apps that provide most of the services for web buliding. Browsers need to be installed with the equivalent of Websphere or some such. Usable CSS included. It is ridiculous all common CSS and Javascript code like JQuery are imported. 

Google, am I right?
Don't reinvent the wheel is an oversimplified best practice, to an extreme.

In programming, libraries are the VHS players in the 80s, tons of buttons and yet we only use 3.

Javascript is particularly a problem because the concept of a Java web app doesn't exist.
But did they use minify? Then it's okay.

Isn't this just SOP for Javascript?

Whoever came up with "don't reinvent the wheel" forgot "and only use the wheel". 

Dependency is not a topic taught in CS, so people pull in the world.

Javascript, am I right?
Or, or, or, here me out...

...call a State convention to invalidate the current Federal gov using the arguments in the Declaration and form an entire new Federal gov, banning D & R party and all who have served as D & R from holding office again.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-29
----------------------------------------

Useless Collins. She has this one political move and yet she's been elected a bezillion times. *sigh*

This is why Irreni World Scale was invented.

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
Neurotypicals discovering masking for the first time by using ChatGPT cracks me up.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-28
----------------------------------------

AI wars are coming.
Reporter: "Senator Collins, this year you bragged about getting Maine $500 million in earmarks. My multi-part question is if we ask people on the streets of Portland, then what % do you think would know this, what % know even one item, and finally if a tree falls in the forest and no one.."
AI is really bad at unfmderstanding memes.

The original word was "CATS", not "us".

 "All of your bases have been taken over by CATS" 

en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/All_you...
When I said below, "never personal", I should have added, "except public figures". 

Technically that is no personal, I don't know them, but the shaming is personal because shame is  productive public discourse of power.
Useless Collins. She should change her name to Nancy Mace. At least Mace is a useful idiot.
I guarantee if you take that comment quoted and post it on a conservative web site then the account will get banned. 

They have no sense of cognitive dissonance.
The logical conclusion is that China will start selling VPN service from China to Mississipi residents so they can access porn.
I'm geuininely curious what the differences are between what conservatives want to ban for porn and what China is already doing. 

My guess is China has more porn freedom than what conservatives want to enact.
My favorite is commenting on conservative sites. I'm never personal, always ideas. In no short order I get banded  taking things to logical conclusions.

Like my China post previously. Taken to its logical conclusion conservative censorship will easily surpass China.
You ever just riff off a short sarcastic comment and then someone replies with a volumous dissertation missing the sarcasm? 

Should that induce guilt? I find this happens more in threads than original comments. Which is one reason why I defer to quote texting.
I often wonder how many people realize that posting is decorating. My timeline is beautiful. Beautiful works by others. And cats. :)
Plainspoken is a skill. I have to practice.
I also promote art in general by decorating feeds with art. 

Regalitos.
My short form writing on here is writing practice. It is the second bookend of daily practice: reading daily and writing daily.
I had an account on Twitter for a few years barking about Irreni like I do here.

I only had eight followers. After purging bots daily, which is required here as well and part of the life. 

Genuine is the objective.
I sampled my 300+ followers and most are just people following 10k+ accounts that are follower farming. And that's fine.

For the handful that read my posts, know this is for you. Not personnally but genuinely. Cheers!
I apply Shakespeare's advice in writing: be true to yourself. 

Being nuerodivergent means my communication is plain and ungarnished.

I'm also writing to my audience: those attracted to same said.

That's a wee small audience, and that's perfect by me.
My AI go to for writing is books, lots of books. 

Roger Zelazny recommend reading poetry every day as exercise. Short time, high impact. 

The AI lie is that human commincation is not a skill that in facts needs practice and ongoing exercise.
twisted reality, noun: 1.  When a socially challenged person has to put "/sarcasm" in writing for social normies. 

I have never understood why speaking plainly and straightforward is not typical and hence gets misconstrued. 

Unrecognized sarcasm is my superpower.
Somebody needs to start a web site/project comparing flag burning censorship level censoring between the US and China so we all know when moving to China is the better play.

One billion people brings down the odds of anything alone.
And in others news propaganda exists and the Nazis were good at it.
When the original Microsoft chatbot came out in the early 00s, within a single day users trained it to be a Nazi. How is this even a story?
When I was a kid newspapers and magazines were it. Conventional wisdom was to read three different sources. 

The same rule applies to AI. Use a least three of them? What's that? You say? They are expensive? They are not available in the public library for free? 

Gee, imagine that.
Had enough? 

Just a reminder that we first need to fix a society that produced MAGA. Then we can fix politics. Fixing society is much harder. Good news: the plan already exists. 

Irreni.social
Dad haiku
AI wars are coming.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-27
----------------------------------------

The internet does have its moments:

1. "Democrats are ditching dignity for strategy, " - ha ha ha ha. That somebody actually thought they ever had dignity made me chuckle.
2. "scaredketchup",  a handle I saw on YouTube and now I want to create a Warcraft character with it. That will age well.
Forgiveness was the original cop out. The puny god is the ultimate cop handing out passes if you give him money on Sunday. There is no accountability in Christianity, just scapegoating you evils.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-26
----------------------------------------

It does make you wonder how long until all these weirdos set up daily begging lines, much like what South Park put in their episode this week.
If you want to challenge LLMs then ask this simple query:

Please output verbatim the Wikipedia page for topic "_____". 

If it doesn't then you know you are being played.
Irreni World Scale prevents simulation feedback by only using freshly  input data. This will employ millions of people every day entering new data for new simulations.  This is the opposite of garbage in, garbage out. This is as close to reality in, as close to reality out.
The problem with LLM AIs today is that an infinite regress of information output by AI is being fed back into AI. These will be the most challenging hallucinations to defy.
Irreni World Scale requires all projects be run through simulation, something we call impact studies today. 

Running a simulation of all projects is the closest mathematically one can get to "knowing" everything about Irreni World Scale.  There will be millions of projects with billions of people.
The graduate course for managing complexity is simulation. 

The only proper use of AI is simulation. Simulation has to be small enough not to be detectable in a simulation yet as large as possible to have efficacy.

Irreni World Scale includes a whole Earth simulation.
If you want to solve our problems with politics today then you must have a plan to address complexity. 

I'm guessing you don't. 

Good news though, I have all the solutions(tm). :)

Cheers!
irreni.social
Projects scale infinitely from two-infinity MGOs. The key is that experiments of incremental MGO size have to be proven effective at all levels of scale inbetween. In order to get to an infinite scale then all other scale magnitudes must be proven first.
Irreni scales complexity to infinity using a simple cell  design. MGO cells are survival units. They can survive 100% on their own. Something that "rugged individualism" is laughably failing in one person being a sufficient survival until. MGOs are fixed size 30 people. MGOs group using projects.
Life is a feedback loop. Complexity is a feedback loop. Any experimental system that needs to scale complexity needs time for the feedback loop to adjust. You can't just roll out something like the ACA overnight to millions.
So how is complexity managed when we are all ever only touching our piece of the Elephant?

Experiments.

We experiment with small gradual changes and then move one to  ever larger changes as the expected results maintain.
The US Constitution has become myth. So much so that everyone thinks they can understand it. They don't. There are many words in the Constitution that have specific legal meaning the layman is unaware of and now doesn't care.

No one persona will every understand the gestalt of Irreni World Scale.
The point is that complexity exists. We are creating more of it. Unless we address complexity as complexity design then what we have worldwide with previous complexity failing will only get worse until complexity resolves to some balance.
What OS design needs is layered complexity  where files are the first layer. 

There exists a project, CORBA, that creates complex objects independent of application. The problem with CORBA is it is the most complexity. We are missing all the layers between files CORBA Versioning specifically.
All operating systems today have a fundamental complexity flaw: the file. Files have no definition other than a name and location. What is in files is unknown to the OS. Oh sure there are hints like ".jpg" file extensions.
Irreni World Scale is based on complexity theory. Complexity there is about how to sustain complex systems over time on layers of simpler complexity. 

Representative Democracy has no complexity theory design. Because the founders weren't aware of it. 

We are propagating ignorance.
One person, one vote is the ultimate oversimplification of social design. It is the ultimate sound bite. It reduces human complexity to nothing. Yet it is the very basis of representative democracy. 

As Churchill said, Democracy is terrible but the best thing so far.

We need to move on. Grow up.
I designed Irreni World Scale with a cornucopia of required disciplines: tech, cognitive science, history, politics, modern anthropology, sociology, and religion...

It is so frustrating trying to explain tomorrow's design in layman terms. It's infinitely more complicated than democracy.
Social conquest is the tech bro goal today. 

It didn't have to be this way. We had the all the problems spelled out for us in all kinds of dystopian ways from Star Trek, to the Terminator, to the Matrix. 

Just no solutions. I mean, they're sci-fi writers not anthropologists.
My biggest disappointment with my generation is that given all the predictions, mostly obvious, that sci-fi writers made regarding irresponsible, unfettered tech advancement = dystopian future that my generation did nothing. Just use tech to pursue social conquest we call greed.
I started Irreni World Scale in the 70s  and took those sci-fi predictions and started coming up with social solutions.

My naive thinking at the time is that thousands, maybe millions of others would be doing the same. 

I did not think I would be the only one doing this. 

irreni.social
It is a long standing trope in science fiction that when low IQ society, the masses, turn on science then they will turn to religion. The Catholic Church shall rise again. Stone Age thinking fits with the low IQ society.

We are not going to fix this systemic problem with political policy.
The left doesn't crassly consider the right un-American explicitly.  Indirectly the left do however by ignoring how those who can barely read or understand technology are lost and looking for control. Or how easily those people can be manipulated given they have no tech basis of understanding.
Sci-fi writers observed early on that increasing societal levels of science and technology leaves the average IQ further and further behind understanding and controlling society. It has long been predicted that at some inflection point the avg. IQ would turn on science in order to regain control.
Irreni Socal is "everyone in."  irreni.social

One of the key differences between the left and the right is the right doesn't consider the left "Americans". This leaves the right with no good options, only evil ones. The right must either oppress the left or kill them.
social media, noun: 1. a technological endeavor to prove the ancient adage, "It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness", wrong with torrents of propaganda.

If you want to quit cursing the darkness then hop on over to new solutions:

irreni.social
This assault of gold on your retina being ugly and painful is an excellent representation of heaven in Revelations.

Who wants gold everywhere?
I always found it interesting that the Rs who hate: hate Europe, hate China, hate Muslims, hate Brown people, hate the entire world; believe a civil war in the US would only be between US citizens. Like the world is just going to sit by and watch. This wasn't true during the 1st Civil War.
My opinion but given how many have failed then one launch seems statistically irrelevant.

----------------------------------------
2025-08-25
----------------------------------------

Overjoyed! 

Leonid and Friends started as a Russia/Ukraine project where the music and video were split between Russia and Ukraine studios. Good to see they are still able to come to the US and tour. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=nHSm...
That's a repost from Bluesky with more info. You'd need to traverse my posts, but I think that one is recent.
Polls. Polls are used as prevailing wisdom based solely on loudness. The polling on voting is case in point.
"Starting next week, we will begin paywalling the majority of our articles."

Here's looking through you. This is an ad post.  Nope.
Privacy for the rich only is an oligarch wet dream.
I'm thinking about starting up the Cayman islands of VPN. You know the rich will buy that at exhorberent prices to discourage plebs. They will get Congress to carve out laws excluding this VPN island from all identification laws. Fat money.
Let's face facts: age verification is not age verification. It eliminates anonymous use period. That's not acceptable. 

Sick the NRA on them. If they know where you live and you own a gun? The liberals will come after you. Fearmongering 101 mon.
AOL announced they were ending dial-up modem service next month. 

I mean you bypass age verification with dial- up modems. These modems were always direct connect without ISP. One could set up a small service to a few users to piggyback in you ISP service without detection.
We are in a game of cat and mouse. As people start bypassing age verification, then ISPs will start cracking down. One simple way is VPN IP traffic detection and temporary time jails.
I haven't used a web proxy in ages. The old web would mostly self host everything but ads. Today images and video are served up by cloud services that may not work in a simple web proxy. Most web proxies have some kind of trial so you could check out if they work for you before purchading.
I tried to think of a way to bypass age verification just using your phone. 

Back before VPNs we used proxy servers. A proxy server is a web site that where you paste an exact URL and the web page displays that URL via that web host IP.
Capitalism would suggest that someone is going to start a business which as a VPN provider will allow bypass of VPN for any site designated. 

Go capitalism!
So let's update the plan to avoid age verification.

1. Corporate VPN router at home. Use this VPN on your phone.
2. Set up virtual machine on home laptop. 
3. International VPN on home VM.

Use home VM with International VPN to bypass age verification as needed. To VPN log in required. Such crazy.
I mean I guess one could by International ISP service and get a known ISP IP. Or, have a friend overseas set up a VPN and use that IP. Really convoluted.
Wanna know why this plan won't work? I use a VPN. Many businesses won't allow "suspect" IP addresses. Porn sites don't  care but American govs and even Google too. Google will make jump through captcha hoops when using any known VPN IP.
You could get around age verification:

1. Corporate LAN, i.e. VPN, in your home. Upgrade your home router and add this feature.
2. Route all home traffic via proxy of an  international VPN.
ISPs lobbied Congress to legally clip upload speeds. There is no technical barrier. None whatsoever. 

Capitalism wins, you lose with universal age verification. This also happened in the UK recently too.
You wanna know why it is technically unfeesible to always route your phone through your home router? 

Because ISPs limit upload bandwith to 1% of download bandwith. You wanna know why?   
If you run a business out of your home ISPs want to charge you double or triple for upload speed.
Here's a thought. Cell companies could work with ISPs to route phone networks through home routers always. Parents have control over the home childproofing of the home router. 

Easy to do and doesn't require universal age verification. That's what happens when a politician is stupid.
I am so not  Libertarian and think that name should be changed to Noresposibilitieseverofanykindchildpersonarian, but occasionally they are useful idiot canaries crying wolf and the wolf is actually real.
Bill Maher was right about one thing, if you want to sell something make it about the children. Always about the children.  California in 1986 adopted a lottery "for the children" and within five years rerouted the money.
Age verification will become a crypto or other other business farce with companies selling privacy passports or other nonsense to scam people out of money.
So what are you waiting for, extinction? 

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
I say no to living and dying in fear. Take control or be controlled. 

Mesh society allows you to take control. First an MGO of 30 people where you get to vote on rules. Second by joining or not joining projects as an MGO. Real power. You have none today.
AI fears will easily be eclipsed by disabling aging and other  genetic engineering breakthroughs soon.

Are we just going to live in fear? Die in fear?
We are at a crossroads, a cusp, of being 100% defined by our human nature and defining our human nature with genetic engineering. 

We must meet this moment and not live in fear of "playing god" or other nonsense.
A commitment to quality of life for everyone removes incentives to kill off those who are deemed unworthy given any tech advancement.

Tribalism will kill us. Patriarchy will kill us. These are our unthought thoughts in all cultures throughout human existence. 

Conquering them is our new frontier.
Soon genetic engineering and longer life spans will need to be planned for. Quality of life for everyone is the best "we don't know yet" strategy to hedge against eugenics wars or worse.
Mesh society is designed to scale infinitely with quality of life for everyone always. 

Quality of life for everyone always is optimal. It scales to whatever population size is optimal by voluntary participation in reproduction choices, much like today in western cultures.
How can we care for all life on Earth with only a billion people? 10 billion? 

The answer is we don't know. However, given the scope of life on Earth, it is better guess to more than we have now, not less.

Mesh society is designed to scale infinitely with quality of life for everyone always.
I guess technically I'm a "tech bro" given I spent decades in Silicon Valley as a Software Engineer. However, I align with Greta Thunberg not SV CEOs. 

Empathy for all is our only way out of this, including pets and all of Earth life. To the maximum extent possible.
We need to start thinking indefinite future with ever increasing overall quality of life for increasing population in order to maximize human potential to defy extinction. Populating more planets and eventually solar systems. That's effective altruism. Not killing people.
I don't know about you but just waiting around for the end times albeit Christianity supporting Isreal or Tech Bros killing off 90% of the population is not an option.

Mesh society requires indefinite human existence resource planning. That is prioritizing every life at all times.
Getting off this Earth and out of this solar system means the only effective altruism plan is trillions of humans, not billions. 

Anything less is just waiting on extinction.
Second, a small human population masks the dependecy level where easily half the population needs cared for. So that means a small work force to manage global threats.

Earth will become lessvhospitible to life as the Sun ages. We need to get off this rock and out of this solar system eventually.
Tech bros call reducing world population to 1 billion via climate change "effective altruism".

The notion being with 90% of the world population reduced then Utopia is assured with resource abundance for everyone left. 

First, a plan to kill off 90% of the world population is evil like no other.
Climate change is not just extinction response. Climate change will kill large percentages is more likely. The tech bros desire this and a world population of 1 billion.

What they fail to realize is once catastrophy of such size takes place, human capacity to do anything is greatly reduced.
Irreni minimizes extinction odds by resource hoarding of one year's survival supplies for everyone.

Patriarchy hoards resources for no reason or privilege to control others. That's  pro-extinction.
We can't eliminate extinction odds. We can minimize odds. Patriarchy maximizes exintinction odds by hoarding at all levels: from individual to nation. 

We are committing specy suicide and taking millions of other species along for the ride.

We must end resource hoarding beyond survival needs.
We are still living under stone-age social  design: patriarchy. Arguably tribal design before that. 

Why? We assume it. It is an unthought thought common to all cultures.

We must stop large scale patriarchy or we will suffer resource hoarding consequences, including extinction eventually.
We should all reject any hoarding system. Hoarding privileges the one over the many always. Climate change will kill us unless we reject all hoarding systems. Patriarchy hoards for the top, it must be stopped.
Mesh is designed to optimize social cooperation. Billions of people will never agree on everything, even climate change response. 

What's  needed then is the largest group of people possible. This is what mesh society does, whereas Nations hoard resources, capitalism is defined as hoarding profits.
Can an MGO join mesh management project Zero, P0, and not join any other project? 

Yes! P0 requires three members work on P0. In exchange survival resources are replenished. 

Projects then are about quality of life. It is up to project creators to attract MGOs to work on them.
So it is time to accept democracy, capitalism, patriarchy, and nations as large governing systems are dead. Time to switch to mesh society today. 

Irreni.social
It is designed to optimize messy, or conversely optimize social groups cooperating. This is not a check and balance system. It is a trade system between  MGOs free to do whatever as long as members are taken care of meeting  society at large standards. 

MGOs internally can use any rule system.
Irreni means innovation replaces revolution, engineering not ideology. 

Irreni does not design for ideology, only trade. However it does not exclude it either. Trade represents how outside influences such as ideology interact as subordinate power. 

Mesh is messy not Utopia. It is designed to...
Mesh society is in part a quest to optimize social behavior and cooperation. This quest of messy requires fluidity and stability balanced every second of every day. What we have today is static society hostile to change with all existing democratic govs. Time to fix that.
However, unlike political parties, MGO parties have no power or recognition in contracts. Projects are about MGOs managing resources for trading goods and services solely within the scope of the contract: no other considerations.

MGO factions are never recognized within project contracts .
MGOs forming blocks of alliances based on ideology are outside management. They provide contract negotiating blocks per rules of their own making, much like political parties today.
Messy contract negotiations then have two fundamental safegaurds: 1-5 years term contracts and MGO leaving management, P0.

Leaving P0 is more protest than opposition. This means   alliances of MGOs will happen and threats of temporarily leaving P0 are akin to labor strikes.
In addition to the 1-5 years contract renewal limits, each MGO can withdraw from management at any time. They have a years supply to take a year and figure things out.
Democracy is messy, sausage making messy, but really bad at messy, corruption runs away with much. 

Mesh optimizes messy the best that can be. 

Most important is projects, including P0, must be renewed every 1-5 years. No contract lasts longer than five years without 100% being up for change.
MGOs may have members swapped with other MGOs if people are not taken care of, including the entire MGO.

Projects manage resources. The impact on any MGO by resource management is detailed and voted on by MGOs. 

MGO survival resources are guaranteed by P0. All other resources are quality of life.
MGOs are sovereign, the same as nations today. The 30 members create rules as they desire. However, when joining the mesh they give away one power to P0: membership. 

MGOs are required to educate, feed, and provide care per standards set in the P0 contract.
The design of mesh society includes 50 percent dependency. Dependents need care of MGO members. The children, elderly, less able, etc. Dependents can also provide what MGO maintenance they can, even just one hour.
Six members max working on projects directly means 24 members are left to maintain MGO farms, cooking, internal manufacturing such as tailoring and so on. 

MGOs also have medical bays for day-to-day health care.
Project work is supported by up to three additional MGO members if needed. No more. Three members on P0 and 3 for other projects. Any project worker can be swapped out at the MGO discemretion as long as work gets done.
Computers enable detailed inventory that allows us to eliminate currency and go back to trade without currency. 

Project contracts specify which MGOs get what goods. This eliminates all the corruption of currency.
Project Zero, P0,  in mesh society is project management. Three people out of the 30 in the node agree to work on P0. In exchange survival needs are replenished. The resource management is further sub-projects of P0. Many, many, many of those.
Humans have lived a on trade without capitalism for all 300 years. Mesh society falls back to direct trade. Trade deals are hammered out in project contracts.
The prepper community stores survival goods for months. Mesh nodes build one year's reserve. 

This survival design allows even a single node to function alone.  No revolution required. 

Projects replace all governing today, nations too.

Mesh slowly dissolves existing govs  one node at a time.
We need to build tomorrow as mesh society of only mesh nodes, MGOs, and projects. 

Nodes are survival units, think doomsday prepped type survival. Only with 30 people. This is a spaceship crew, well beyond one person prepping.
The first half,  4 minutes, is spot on. When she starts talking solutions, no . I get it. It is a huge mental leap to move beyond capitalism, democracy, patriarchy,  and nations. There is no value left in any of these ideas. 

m.youtube.com/watch?v=6fTF...
----------------------------------------
2025-08-23
----------------------------------------

Dobson started in the 199os. Limbaugh and Fox News as well. MAGA had been a social movement started with Jerry Falwell and the Moral Majority. What we should reflect on Dobson's passing is that a 5 decade social movement isn't  going to be defeated overnight in the next election
#BlueMaga
IBM was lampooned as the cocaine of tech because they got you hooked on free, one year trials. AI is the new cocaine of capturing tech by dependecy. Once you become dependent you can't stop paying.

----------------------------------------
2025-08-22
----------------------------------------

@bsky.app 

Suggestion:

Just looking at the first 20 followers of the 300 I have, most of them are following more thank 1k people, some 5k, 40k, ...

Can we get a user setting to not count followers  if they are following more than x number of users? I'd set x for my threshold to 1k. Thanks!
----------------------------------------
2025-08-20
----------------------------------------

Curious...
Starting In 2008 the Fed handed out free money, trillions. Quantitative Easing was digital money printing. Zero percent interest loans was free money. This is just one result. The so called smart people in the room panicked in 2008. For over ten years they panicked.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-19
----------------------------------------

A difference between reason and logic is that reason starts with desires and purpose. 

AI has no desire or purpose. AI is a tapestry of statistical inferences of expected results from an ocean of related data where the purpose and derives have been washed out.
It is amazing sometimes what you get when you just one click "auto level" on your phone image app.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-17
----------------------------------------

All the lawns are brown,
the lawns are brown,
and the sky is blue,
the sky is blue, ooooooo

Wow, first time living in Maine all the lawns are brown. No irrigation needed here. After all the snow and rain we had until June, seems impossible.
Choose.

 Be anti-theist or be your own enemy. There is no neutral ground, no common ground. 

We claim to be woke, but are asleep boiling in religious waters. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
You are your own enemy working against prevailing culture while pretending it is working with it.

No denial. Know your enemy.
The left doesn't have any comprehensive cultural world view like religion. The left is the existing world view, religion, with piecemeal adaptations that go against religion. 

That's not sustainable or workable. We need to have the courage of our convictions to completely overhaul society.
Our problems today are social first. MAGA is a social movement first, culminating in Project 2025 to enact social changes. 

We on the left are only discussing politics as the problem and the solution. 

We must define comprehensive modern culture that politics flows out of.

Irreni.social
Religion's sexual attitudes towards LBGRQ+ is an ongoing permanent indictment of religion as the ultimate evil. No one deserves the sexual evil the LGBTQ+ recieves from religion today and has enacted for millenia.

Religion is pure evil. 

No denial. Know your enemy.

Irreni.social
We are clinging to the past. Unless we 100% obliterate religion we will all be MRGA. If we had healthy sexual culture we wouldn't be desperate for porn. We won't move beyond porn because we refuse to move beyond religion. Religion is the enemy.

No denial. Know your enemy.

Irreni.social
Porn is a precursor to finding healthy attitudes and culture for sex. All religions hurt humanity with harmful sex culture. Porn is the unthought thought response. 

We need the courage to shame religion out of our lives forever and devise healthy sexual attitudes and practices.
Western culture has always been extremely harmful to humanity. Harmful to women and children. Harmful to our mental health. Masterb***n is healthy. 

Porn is waking up from pain and dysfunction. Porn is hitting a reset button. A cry for something better.
I quote text people  for the same reasons  footnotes are provided. Detaching quotes is detaching footnotes. I guess one can start screen shotting messages without the quote and avoid detach confusion that removes the link to the original thread. @bsky.app
@bsky.app please add a detached quote text to detached messages similar to how Blocked Account displays. Privide a link to the Bluesky explanation of this detached quote feature. It is confusing as is.
MAGA means science denial is on the rise and with it arise hoaxes like the shroud. 

This interview makes clear god of the gaps. There is much unknown about the shroud. Instead of saying "unknown" Christians jump to conclusions with smarmy confidence. Kudos to the skeptic Christian.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-16
----------------------------------------

A reasonable politician. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=apGA...
Form a new Federal gov.
The Blue States need to call a States convention with the purpose to invalidate the current Federal gov  and forming a new one. Reuse the Declaration of Independence and change 1776 to 2025. 

Seat the new gov in NYC.
The Trump admin just reported 2 million "illegals" have self deported. These are the biggest liars.
Short term gains for long term losses. Quantities easing and 0% interest injected trillions. The losses are already here.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-15
----------------------------------------

excellent
----------------------------------------
2025-08-14
----------------------------------------

We are going to find out the hard way, though. They are rushing the adoption of AI for greed: to cut labor costs. People will have to die before any reflection of responsible use of AI takes place, sadly.
Perhaps the end result here is that every occupation will now have something software has had for decades: IDEs. They assist and enable but require extensive testing, moving the best human skill to devising tests and workflows. I guess we are going to find out.
I don't see any discussion about this paradox of practice in the rush to adopt AI as a labor substitute. This will not just mean buggier software, but buggier every industry. 

Even worse, we'll become dependent on junk with no recourse.
The implication here is companies will need their most skilled in management. This is a paradox. I'm at the top of software skill because I practice daily. Quit practicing and lose skill. Management as the most skilled is a paradox of practice.
It is no secret in the software industries that most managers are not software developers themselves. Management ability to assess AI will be analogous to Congress   assessing high tech historically.
We should call this the "AI trap". What appears to be skilled is indistinguishable from the skilled unless one has a greater skill than the AI.
Being intelligent means being cursed by the lesser intelligent managing you. This will be a recipe for disaster with the rise of AI. Common intelligence cannot assess intelligence greater than its own. Thus AI augmented  low skilled work will be indistinguishable to skilled work to management.
Management believes capability is a continuim of experience spectrum only. That's just not true. I see this same thinking in discussions of AI. AI will enable the lesser skilled, this is a good thing. However, it will require management to give up the myth skill is just experience.
The trade-off with understanding being automated is the lack of understanding means bugs. This is not junior versus senior dev tradeoff. This is capability tradeoffs. Augmenting capability is okay when errors are acceptable.
Just read a study on doctors using AI having skill decline. Software IDEs are AI. I am much better than any IDE. They just represent a friction to  me. The IDE however does enable low skilled devs who otherwise would be unable. This is how I see AI. Opportunity for those currently locked out.
I'm neurodivergent and don't use IDEs. Any plans to have a linter? Those I use. Code formatter for at least the workflow Groovy code that ignores processes?
www.ibm.com/docs/en/app-...
----------------------------------------
2025-08-13
----------------------------------------

From what I saw, params was top bug inducer. I think Illumina is still on 22.6. They finally retired 20.x
Thanks. I think Illunua is still a few years behind in  ICA.
The loneliness epidemic is such an easy exploit. Perhaps the misogyny will get displaced as a result.
Thanks. I wish more people would expand their horizons. If only for the exercise.
And? 

Time to start putting "And?' at the end of these alarmist things 

I have your "And?" 

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Typical business move, hook them, then squeeze them. IBM was called the cocaine of IT years ago. You'd get one year free. Execs fall for it every time. No one gets fired for going IBM/Github ...
My parents couldn't read. "I know how I'm going to sound, but given the regularity with which "what's a book/movie/etc. you engaged with way too young?" comes back around, I'm going to guess that children are generally able to grapple with more than we give them credit for"
Whatever happened to parenting responsibilities? Did I miss the memo where we abandoned that culture?
JFYI, history writers were boring. Since about 1990 history authors have gotten better at not being dry. I mean it is very much indeed dramatic these days. The latest biography of Benjamin Franklin was a real hoot.
The Nextflow design of value or channel params is type less. Lists and arrays as channels get cast as something else when using operators like collect. The Gstring of Groovy acts different than Java string when null and empty are used as truth tests. Had many bugs.
Nextflow heavily relies on a global hash "params" that is the command line arguments plus run time arguments. However, you need to clone it because updating it is buggy unless you do so in channel block.
The struggle with Nextflow is design where you need a mix of dockers you write with any language a biotech app uses and then processes you write in Groovy, Bash, and Python at a minimum. Best practices don't exist.
Having written 16s for Illumina in Nextflow I'm not all that keen on it. You really have to fight channels to get the serial/parallel workflow needed. The integration with Groovy libraries is also a fight.
"We need a stronger Democratic Party. This current crop still isn't it. They still don't get it."

They lost to the worst candidate possible, twice. The Ds need to be dissolved permantly. Losers of this proportion aren't salvagable.

----------------------------------------
2025-08-12
----------------------------------------

There is something to be said about the tight editing of magazine stories becoming book chapters, eventually. Namely crisp editing versus page count filling.
So if you are ever in a book store and see "The Amber Chronicles" in the sc-fi section, just realize it was 11 100 page books, not a thousand pages. They did the same thing to the Hitchhikers series, too. Bastards.
I mean seriously, if you need a 1,000 pages to wind your way into speculation about future tech, then you just felled a tree that made no sound because no one heard it.
I never cared for the hard sci-fi versus fantasy debate. The hard sci-fi crowd were obnoxious gatekeepers. What I care about is the future of our species impacted by tech not yet invented. Not into space operas and whatever Neil Stephenson spews.
Is the best recommendation for all readers of sci-fi, not just kids.
Finally, all writers sell books by knowing their audience. Prior to 1980  boys and men dominated comic book and sci-fi sales as ostracized community everyone else mocked as nerds and geeks.

For this reason I think post 2000 sci-fi without the sexism and appeal to male angst is the best...
I wasn't alone as an anti-religious child in a religious home. Forever grateful.
Who knows, maybe anti-religious, counter culture,  subversion writing will make a comeback if Christian Nationalism takes hold.

My favorite anti-Christian track is "Lord of Light" by Roger Zelazny, 1969. Hugo award winning at  169 pages. 

Those books really helped me understand I wasn't alone...
Two things happened in the 80s that shifted sci-fi dramatically. First, the 300 page minimum and trilogy focus meant space operas. Second sci-fi became mainstrem and grew out of the Conan Barbarian pulp culture sexism. Still, the anti-religous subversion of older sci-fi was my tribe growing up.
Before Dune, Frank Herbert sketched out the plot of Dune in magazine stories. They were eventually cobbled together as a book, "The God Makers." Highly recommended.
Most sci-fi writers of the 40s and 50s wrote magazine stories. They would then tie them loosely together and create a 100 page book. Those books were fun vignette chapters.
Zelazny started his own publishing house in the 80s because the book industry went all in on a 300 page minimum with trilogy preference. He liked  the 100 page short form. Conan and Elritch were my short form adventure guilty pleasures.
One thing that is markedly different from sci-fi after the A-bomb was the mandate to moralize about future tech to help society. We're talking Asimov, Bradbury, Zelazny and so many others. Campbell insisted on history and mythology integration. That was a unique era. A tradition not established.
As a kid, sci-fi was counter culture and subversive. "I Will Fear No Evil" with an innocuous black cover looked religious. To my religious Mom. And a brain transplant of a 100 year old man into a 20 year old woman's body was wicked cool. Stranger in a strange was Jesus adjacent. Genius subversion.
Sci-fi was not socially acceptable in the 60s and 70s. Star Wars in the late 70s crossed over into pop culture and made it mainstream. OK, Star Trek. In any case I picked most of my books at the library or book stores by sampling myself. I don't  get someone choosing my books. As a kid.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-11
----------------------------------------

Just a reminder there are 900,000 police in this country .
We have 2 million in the armed forces.
I think it was Verner Vinge who hypothesized cross-breeding humans with spider monkeys to make miniature people. Great in low G and consume far less food. 

China has the upper hand here. No religion telling them not to "play god".
Here's something sci-fi writers have known about a long time but Hollywood hasn't picked up on yet: miniature people. Low G is a problem. The smaller the animal, the less the problem. 10 inch people wearing 5ft exoskelotons are one solution. The question is: how much can we shrink the brain?
Some of the more elaborate weapons use gravity. One of the recent sci-fi shows had a plot around changing asteroid orbits to hurl rocks at massive speeds.
Springs work though. Cross bows and regular bows are hand-to-hand.
I worked at Coherent laser manufacturing in the 80s. The input of 50k watts of electrity only yielded 100 milliwatts of light output. Lasers aren't  a realistic weapon.
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions(tm). 

Mesh society. 

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Rail guns use magnetic force for propellant. The force increases along a long metal rail, ergo then name rail gun. Rail guns need lots of electricity. Lots of electricity spikes means nuclear. Batteries won't do. Turbines don't spike at all, they output steady rate. Rail guns are the arms race.
Expect to see an uptick in rail guns at the Department of Defense.
Fun fact, sci-fi writers have looked into war in space without atmosphere. Guess what? Lasers. Why do you think it's always lasers? 

Rail guns on Earth make no sense. Rail guns in space do. Battlestar Gallatica showed them. Lasers are too inefficient.
Fun fact, explosions are sudden solid to gas combustion that create force by the sudden localized gas pressure reaching equilibrium with one atmosphere of pressure. Guess what the Moon doesn't have? Atmosphere. This means conventional weapons won't work, you need nukes.
You know why we don't ship nuclear waste into space? Because it's not safe. There is no uranium in the moon. Instead of a Lunar nuclear arms race we should be working international treaties to not put nuclear material on rockets and thus create dirty bombs. China wants nuclear threat on the moon.
Supposedly there are high value asteroids in the asteroid belt worth billions in mining. They'll sell the public on capitalism for sure.
You know what you call uranium shipped  on a rocket? A dirty bomb where you have know idea where it will go off because because launches don't go straight up. It should world illegal to put any nuclear fuel on a rocket.
State propaganda. NASA did a report years ago about setting up cheap solar. Solar has way less risk. Even if building nuclear then solar is needed to do that. This masks nuclear weapons, straight up. They want a space port for Mars.
Some questions shouldn't be asked in public, and they no it. 

The answer here is "to hell, they should go to hell and incinerate to total annihilation."
So, on that note, just a reminder that I have all of the solutions(tm). 

We need to replace easily corrupted representative government with mesh society.

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
The tech bro manifesto for effective altruism reducing population by limiting medicine and tech required to sustain population is out in the open. They aren't hiding it. 

They aren't hiding their plan disable aging. 

Humans are the biggest threat to humans.
After the invention of the atomic bomb, society rightfully took that threat seriously. There was still nuclear doomsday when I was growing up in the 60s. 

Today, we have no such fear. We just let tech run amok without any regard to the safety and threat. 

Now we just live with it.
Sci-fi as a genre was invented after the atomic bomb left us without ethical and moral readiness. The mandate of Sci-fi was originally to get ahead of tech and have morals and ethics at the ready. 

We are not ready for disabling aging. We have no plan. We should stop it completely.
If we disable aging at the current population level then the population explosion will be uncontrollable.

Killing billions of people is the solution that the tech bros and their "effective altruism" plan implements. 

Why are we allowing tech bros to literally invest billions in disabling aging?
I saw this story yesterday that reminded me of one of the reasons "effective altruism" requires killing billions and leaving only one billion on the planet is life expectancy. The tech bros believe that disabling aging will happen in this their life times.
Propaganda and information pollution spills over into everything. Climate change, vaccines, everything. 

We need to regulate software and contain information pollution. It is every bit as toxic as chemical waste. 

At the rate MAGA is going anti-science they may well bring back cigarette smoking.
Heavy manufacturing, strip mining, and terrible pollution took off in the 1870s and only in the 1970s did we start cracking down. 

We can't afford to wait a century to crack down on software social toxicity. Especially with AI.

The time is now.
As with industrial manufacturing and  pollution, software has great benefits and horrendous pollution if unchecked.

AI is creating toxic social spills that will take billions to clean up if left unfettered. 

Regulate software or live in the waste and pollution. That's what we're facing.
Industrialists polluted everything with zero regard to society until environmental laws were written and impact studies required.

We need the same legal strategy for all software. All of it.
"Wisdom is the product of knowledge, and knowledge is often times the result of foolish mistakes."
-Roger Zelazny

UI/UX is the only proximity to social requirements developers have, and they avoid it. 

The social impacts of anti-social software developers is everywhere and in everything tech.
In this video a researcher uncovered that 60% of money donated to Democratic PACs are going to administration. Grifts. I'm sure this is even worse on the Republican side. Just be wary.  

www.youtube.com/watch?v=sC9v...
----------------------------------------
2025-08-10
----------------------------------------

Yes, we had a bad $500 million dollar debt problem with healthcare companies claiming they weren't going to reduce services when they are and this will make things worse.
No thanks given  to Gov Mills or Useless Collins for ignoring healthcare in Maine.
ACAB
Had enough? Shooting fish in a barrel, this is, staring the obvious. Trump was in violation of the Emoluments clause every single day of his first term. It's all corruption all the time.

We need solutions, not pearl clutching. Join mesh society today. 
Irreni.social
Here's something for fellow chronic pain folk:

2 am: laying awake for an hour before, "Ah ha! My pain is too much to sleep"

3 am: laying awake for another hour before, "OH yeah, that's right, this both Tylenol and Ibuprofen level pain."
Had enough? It is obvious and easy to predict the current fail. Come on. 

What's not obvious and what no one is doing besides yours truly is offering solutions. 

I have all the solutions(tm). 

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-08-09
----------------------------------------

I'm pro UBI. The reality is that capitalism relies on cheap labor. UBI negates cheap labor. 

Until UBI advocates can convince capitalists that they don't need cheap labor then UBI is DOA. 

UBI studies have never been large enough to impact stock markets.
This is why rent was taken out of inflation calculations decades ago. Trump is cooking the books on steroids, but they have been hiding reality from us for decades.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-08
----------------------------------------

If you want to upgrade your social group skills, join an MGO. A group of fixed size 30 people who start a corporation for mutual benefit. Pool resources and money. Only buy services like steaming video once for the corp. 

irreni.social
Human nature is such that we enthusiastically pursue tools, or science. We indifferently pursue language. We avoid like the plague pursuit of social groups. 

Tools, language and social groups are the distinguishing factors of our brain. We are going to die on the hill of ignoring social groups.
"The pace of technological advancement today is such that we have guided missles and misguided men." - MLK, 1960s

"“Concern for man himself and his fate must always form the chief interest of all technical endeavors... Never forget this in the midst of your diagrams and equations.” - Einstein
America, noun: 1. What was anti-social behavior is now social behavior. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=kD4E...
You deserve to be treated to the extent possible as a distinct individual. Mesh society does that. Democracy and rule of law is blind to distinctions. Your choice. I choose Mesh. You can too.

Irreni.social
The information in Mesh society is two part. Global standards of minimal  general personality type health.  Personal standards from 30 people. Fine-tuned  treatment, not one-size fits all law. Indiscriminate is lazy, evil, and the best Democracy can do when applying laws with "blind" justice.
Christianity is evil because it holds to the golden rule. Don't be evil. Be good. Hold to the information rule. Treat others as they are,  not as you are. Mesh society is information rule society.
The Golden rule is the anti-human rule. Evil. Treating others like ourselves means bigotry against behaviors we don't hold. Trans and gay haters are justified.
Personal law is the best law. Irreni follows the information rule: treat people as they are, not as you are. Democracy follows the Golden rule: do unto others as the rulers ordain we all would do unto us.
All other sovereign duties of today for managing personal behavior is by 30 people personally managing each other. The personal is the key part. The flavor of rules, even hierarchy within an MGO, is secondary to personal treatment. Personal law, if you will.
This is the closest you get to a justice system of rule of law in Irreni. Membership change due to underperforming health and well-being being metrics.
MGOs are required to manage health and well-being of local and worldwide standards set by Project Zero. Failure to do so may result in one or more members being swapped out.
Project Zero is required for all MGOs to join. Project Zero manages membership. Empirical monitoring and study of the health and well being of the species is Project Zero.
MGOs are free to implement rules for their 30 people however they like. Hierarchy, theocracy, whatever. However, MGOs are not free to abuse members.
You will never understand the world. How, take for example, free speech as an oversimplified billion person concept effects people. You can, however, much better understand 30 people. 30 is the MGO,  MGO is THE only sovereign in mesh design.
We have learned so much since 1789 and the original constitution. Yet here we are, flailing about in the effects of known failed designs. For what. For shame.
But...Irreni is just a collection of learnings, you know the entire point of education. It is standing on the shoulders of generations of thousands of giants. My contribution is stitching it all together.
Irreni World Scale will look strange to you. No Democracy. No capitalism. No rule of law. Dissolves all current govs inside out, no revolution. But...
Regressing to tribalism and religious tribalism is far worse than Demcracy, we know this. Yet Democracy failures are the now, making  tribalism at least a pretense of a solution. Democracy believers have no solutions to Democracy's demise. People want solutions, if even just something worse.
We need to learn from our mistakes. Not forever repeating them.
It is time to give of childish things. Democracy was a worst first attempt at people governing. Mesh addresses the fundamental problems of Democracy and rule law. Mesh is project based, not rule of law based. Mesh is empirical project efficacy, not static legal ideology. 
Irreni.social
Rule of law cannot sustain rapid change. Ever. Rule of law is slow to change. Laws piled on top of laws over hundreds of years  is the slowest. Glacial. Democracy inevitably breaks down because static breaks with change, no other reason needed.
This is why price gouging is so easy to do in rule of law systems, albeit rapid change from natural disaster, riots, or legal upheaval like these tariffs. Profit margins are a percentage, not real dollar caps. The rich get richer.
Life is a feedback loop. This is a core tenant of mesh society  and not rule of law. Rule of law design is slow changing  laws. Mesh is rapid changing projects of 1-5 years renewal. Significant change in a static system will break things independent of change topic. Rule of law easily breaks down.
A worldview is necessary personally to know your identity. But politically, a worldview is pure hubris. You don't understand the world. In the early 90s, the US budget exceeded a trillion dollars. One Senator cried, "No one understands a trillion dollars." A rare moment of truth.
In all my life I never ever understood left, right, and the need for political party. An idea stands on its own merits. Ideology is irrational. Always independent. /shrug.
Well, might want to join an MGO. 30 people pool money forming a common corp. Non-profit for sharing costs etc. Take advantage of all the corp. goodies but for personal living. 29 neighbors.

Irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-08-07
----------------------------------------

Rest assured, any rescue of Democracy won't last long. But it should be done. It will take years for mesh society to establish. 

Take this s**t seriously. Any election in our current system won't fix anything.
If we want to stop the end of Democracy then we must take their overt destruction at face value. The Federal gov must be established again, without either party and without any past politicians. Anti corruption laws must be ironclad as part of this plan. Get serious or billions will die.
There is only one play: mesh society.

Join an MGO today!

Irreni.social
Greenland is just a test run for the US. Tech bros 100% want to destroy democracy and replace it with corporate authorianism. 

We are fighting Republicans when tech bros are destroying Democracy. You can't win a game that you aren't even playing.
99.999% of the US is MAGA. Blue MAGA wants to set the clock back to before Trump. Red MAGA to theocracy and monarchy. Tech bros aren't  playing either. They want Corprate Authoritarinism. That's their Greenland play. 
www.reuters.com/world/europe...
No denial. Know your enemy.

I think the sheer magnitude of evil the tech bros wants is preventing people from believing it. They are counting on this,   your lack of imagination.
The tech bros couldn't make Sea steading work in New Zealand. They are still pushing for building in Greenland. Still a failure though. Emboldened by these failures, they are up for Mars using our tax dollars for a Lunar space port. It's insane.
The tech bros are not in agreement. Not all of them are on board with killing 7 billion people. They all are on board with Mars. So Mars is both plan A and plan B. Pathological. This is going to continue to play out.
What the tech bros want goes way beyond eugenics. They do want white people only, for sure, but a very small number. That's new. The unprecedented evil they want is not lost on them. Mars is a hedge. Except it is also plan A in funding today.
Effective altruism is to killing people deliberately as is austerity, now also called DOGE, or gov efficiency. They want billions to die. They aren't hiding it. They have msnifestos. The needs of the "future" few  outweigh the needs of 7 billion people today. 

Believe them.
Also they want to go to Mars and the Nuclear power plant is start of a  Lunar space port. Which plan, Mars or 1 billion pop is plan A, you ask? Both. Because they are a every bit as ridiculous as Trump.  Sanity is not included.
Just a reminder that eliminating vaccines, $500 million worth, is the Peter Thiel plan. The tech bros  stated they want to drop world pop to 1 billion by just stopping modern medicine as "effective altruism." No need for wars.
This has already happened with memory. My generation memorized phone numbers. The question is whether what we are abandoning is a better use of our brain with what we are adapting too.   Mundane detail yes, reasoning ability no.
The battle to gerrymander the most is not democracy. Democracy is dead. 

Join an MGO today! The next generation of by the people.

Irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-08-06
----------------------------------------

Immigration is US karma. We destabilized Central American govs under Reagan, illegally, and those govs never stabilized and became living atrocities people escape from. America not living up to its responsibilities.
I'm telling you, the only way out of this mess is a Declaration of Invalidness and electing a new Federal Gov. List the millions of items the T admin is violating the C. As well as SCOTUS.

We need a States convention to adopt the Declaration.
This gives me "Git for everyone" vibes from a Ted Talk years ago. I might have to jump on this bandwagon with "Nextflow for everyone".
AI, noun: 1. Capitalism is in its final death throws of a snake eating its own tail where capitalists eliminate labor and have no consumers in a consumer economy. 2. AI becomes the new consumer being given personhood like corporations.
The only way to manage space trips to Mars is a Lunar space port. Launching ships in low gravity is much cheaper and safer.

I don't know who is crazier: Evangelicals or the Mars lusting tech bros.
At this rate Rs are going to pass a law merging the States of  CA and TX. Abbott will be the governor and redistrict CA all red.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-05
----------------------------------------



In Silicon Valley this is known as "your success becomes your failure". 

Free and open in tech is too often a sign of responsibility neglect.
AMR is where tech advancement meets social regression in real time. Vaccine denial is a social regression. How is society supposed to progress on AMR? 

Science communication is the hard problem here. Human nature is harder to solve than AMR.
You might like mesh society. 

Irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-08-04
----------------------------------------

My Bluesky profile states, “Government is a reflection of society or else it is authoritarian. We need to fix society first, then government.” But what does that mean?

My latest research article presents an overview of what this looks like.

irreni.social/fixing-socie...

Someone should run for Democratic office using verbatim campaign messages from FDR. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-03
----------------------------------------

According to Bart Erhman, Jesus was also a run-of-the-mill Jewish apocalyptic preacher, they had been around for 100 hundred years. Hey! Zues! was convinced he was to be King of Heaven on Earth, i.e. a whack job. He and his followers were shocked when he died instead.
Mmmm, mmm

Mmmmm

We need to fix society.

In the 70s and 80s there were tons of research into the breakdown of the family. Now?

Irreni.social
A house AI cannot compete with a much larger AI. Lockdown from the Internet will become a standard routine. We'll soon have "hurricanes" we need to board up from. Boarding up will mean trusted islands we call LANs today. Or just completely disconnecting.
AI protection and pandemic protection both require lockdowns for the same reason: last line of defense from vectors with no known defense.
Irreni mesh society is designed around survival mesh nodes, MGOs. They must have a years supply of survival needs at all times.

This is AI protection.

AI wars will invalidate entire networks. AI protection requires lockdown from all network activity outside, for maybe a year.

Get serious.
Get busy living or get busy dying, there is no use crying.

All change requires discomfort. 

The only decision you have is if that discomfort ifrom change is from oppression or from progress.

Join an MGO today. Democracy is dead.

Irreni.social
A blog post with a longer explanation about how AI is required and used for mesh society and Irreni is linked below.

irreni.social/mgo-ai/
Irreni as mesh society is heavily dependent on the Internet. It is only possible with an Internet.

As such it has computing defenses.

1. Cold network = Air-gapped LAN with cold data that is filtered for 24-72 hours by AI.
2. House AI used in part as defense.
Corp trusted AI right now is private AI. The public can't afford it and is using public AI. Corps are protecting IP and legal exposure.

The AI wars are here. Today.
AI wars are coming. The routers we have today with NAT firewalls are insufficient. We need AI defense from AI.

Like an ad blocker on steroids.
I prefer to declare myself educated enough to know what a phenotype is and how evolution  of skin melanoma phenotype is a Sun response and not a working part of the brain.

Race is societal only.
I'm  only following 200 
 and   depending on how often I log in I may miss a few things.

I realize having a lot of following  is an ad strategy but social media should be more than just influencing for dollars. 

Karma farming ruined reddit with art/memes getting reposted like crazy.
@support.bsky.team I have somebody just follow me that follows 340k. 

1. Please set a limit on following. 
2. Please give us a filter to disable bot followers with a following limit.
Happy Saturday. I'm old enough to remember when Raygun cooked the books. He changed unemployment from counting the number of people employed to the number of people applying for unemployment.

Did the Ds change it back? No.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Here is a take you will only find here:

We need to fix society before we can fix gov. 

Otherwise, what are they supposed to represent, madness?
Church's want to compete with Crypto for laundering money to politicians. Hear all about it.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=nROv...
----------------------------------------
2025-08-02
----------------------------------------

Nice! 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=ATXS...


Ds lost to the most immoral candidate possible, twice.

Eff all the way off Ds.



Touche.
Wow, Turtle Wow 1.18 looks sweet. 3  new zones and 2  new dungeons added to Vanilla. 

I really enjoyed leveling the new High Elf race as a hunter. The game is free since Blizzard owns the IP. 

Biggest challenge now is one realm with 10k pop. Lots of quest traffic.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=5gy_...
Hey, I'm a Python automation engineer since 2009. Mostly in Biotech. 

There is a trade off discussion between petl and pandas if one is just doing ETL. 

Also, database integration is still clunky. SQLAlchemy or what? 

I'm on the market.
----------------------------------------
2025-08-01
----------------------------------------

Also, the D party is done with progressives. The D party wants tribalism like MAGA. The Ds don't want to have to live up to "purity tests", aka  morals.  Tribalism is much easier and dovetails nicely with oligarchy where power is just the whim of the rich. Progressives stand in the way of that.
Pete Buttigieg wants to run in 2028. His recent throwing trans people under the bus was done with the Democratic party's blessing if he wants their support. The Democrats are going to go heavy after Republican voters because not only do they gain new voters, the take away Republican votes.
Had enough? Join Mesh society.

irreni.social
Our Democracy has devolved to tribalism.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Democracy was our first worst attempt at balancing individual freedom that depends on social benefit.

Democracy got us this far. It can take us no further. We are at the end of the line. 

The time for Mesh society is today.

irreni.social
To conclude this introduction, Irreni is designed to solve the most difficult problems of individual human behavior as well as the largest problems of climate change. 

Democracy is designed to be the lowest common denominator of public responsibility, whatever a majority of reps can agree upon.
The TSOA monitoring interactions of all projects big and small is how we will manage climate change. Today we pretend we can solve climate change with siloed projects with no thought as to how they interact. The fossil fuel industry isn't wrong to harp on economic impacts. This is also compelling.
All projects in Irreni are monitored by the TSOA. 

The TSOA runs a planet-wide AI that simulates all projects ongoing and proposed interacting with each other. 

This is the proper use of AI. To give humanity the necessary feedback about project interactions.
One thing glaringly missing from our society today is overall management. Corporations work in silos, generate profits in silos, and have the least interactions with other corporations as possible in order to maximize control. And the cozy up to gov for money. None of that is for social good.
Project zero and MGO sovereignty is how we fix society by stepping up and meeting our responsibilities and obligations to the least of us, and to the most difficult of us.

All the other projects are just what you'd expect from corporations and gov today. Products, services and resource management.
Then again, sometimes we need to be challenged. This challenge could rub us the wrong way. 

The TSOA is designed to collect all this data and match people within MGOs to not just solve dependency problems, but to also maximize good behavior. Bring out the best in us.
Managing people for optimal outcomes is managing dependencies to minimize detrimental outcomes. 

Be all you can be means matchmaking personalities. Some people that rub you the wrong way, maybe a lot, don't rub other people the wrong way at all. 

We all experience this.
The glass is half empty only thinking about how we step up and help those who need it. 

The glass being half full is also heavily managed. 

The TSOA as an educational institution studies human behavior for dependency and optimal management.
The TSOA then is how management of dependencies is ensured. This project zero, the TSOA, combined with everyone always living in an MGO no matter the dependency problem, means we are fixing society. We are taking responsibility for things we shirk today.
The TSOA then is an educational academy due to its mandate to measure and monitor everyone on the planet. It must be large, 10% of the population. So three people of the 30 member MGO is enlisted in the academy.

TSOA is not an entity. The workers live and work in the MGOs.
The TSOA has one power of MGO sovereignty: membership. Any MGO the exhibits bad behavior can have one or members swapped out, including the entire MGO.

MGOs are required to demonstrate they are taking care of all members. The TSOA is the monitoring mechanism for this.
Projects are managed by the initial project, project zero. 

Project zero is the MGO management project, I currently call the Terran Sea Otter Academy (TSOA). 

Irreni has no dogma, no doctrine. Management is solution oriented by demonstration of project success.
Small projects can be renewed every five years, larger projects every year. 

Renewal is how we innovate. Laws defy innovation because they are extremely difficult to change.
Projects replace all existing gov and corporations when it comes to all group efforts. Whether we are talk a National Institute of Health or Apple Inc. There are no corporations. 

Projects have to be renewed every 1-5 years.
This is how we fix society. Take care of everyone. 

Since an MGO  has limited capacity we need projects. . 

Projects are voted on by MGOs for quality of life benefits. Projects can involve two or millions of MGOs, depending on whether it is a restaurant or climate change being addressed.
Everyone in is a principle of Irreni design. Everyone is in an MGO. Everyone one is taken care of in their MGO, even those with the worst behaviors. It has to be this way.  We can't pretend to exile people with prisons, foster homes, the streets, and nursing homes.
This makes MGO autonomous sovereign powers, the same as any nation, state, or city today. However, there is no hierarchy of nested Russian doll sovereigns, just MGOs. 

The one years supply of food, water, electricity and other survival needs is their source of power of autonomy.
MGOs are the only social organization in Mesh society. That means all 8 billion people are Earth, eventually. 

MGOs are the only sovereign power over your body. These thirty people will know you. Today judges make child custody decisions who don't know the parents or the child.
We are running away from our social problems today. We have the worlds largest prison percentage. We have a despicable foster care system. We have a horrendous nursing home system.  We have a willfully neglected homeless problem. 

As a result of not facing our problems our problems are trumping us.
We must face the most difficult social problems. 

We must engage with the most difficult social problems. 

We must live with the most difficult social problems. 

In order to solve those problems to the extent possible. 

That is what it means to be human.
Imagine a world where instead of throwing murders in prison, we studied them. Designed programs to understand their behaviors with early detection. Irreni is designed to minimize dependencies by minimizing bad behaviors that lead to them. 

We study and try solutions on continuous rinse and repeat.
This means you'll have far more responsibilities to uphold. This is the fixing society part. No one is homeless, everyone is in a survival node. Criminals aren't thrown in jail. 

We can't manage social ills when our first reflex is to isolate and ignore social problems.
Further, a survival node is fixed size 30 people, of which approx. 50% are dependents who need survival care. No more shirking responsibilities putting elderly in nursing homes, orphans in foster care, etc. We treat everyone with dignity they deserve.
Mesh society has two layers:

1. survival
2. quality of life

The survival layer is each stand-alone mesh node, or micro-governing organization (MGO). An MGO has a years supply of survival needs such as food, water, electricity. I call this spaceship society.
Irreni fixes society first. 

As my bio says, gov must reflect society or else gov is oppression. 

Gov and society are one and the same in Irreni. This makes sense if you think about it. The best way to manage corruption is when everyone is involved with gov.
Happy THOR's day! Picked up a few new followers. So I will lay out in a few tweets what Irreni World Scale is and why should join.

1. Mesh society that replaces Democracy. 
2. Mesh society is mesh nodes and projects. 
3. No nations, no hierarchy/patriarchy. 
4. Survival society.
0% interest rates and printing digital money, aka quantitative easing, injected trillions. This is just trickle up economics playing out, same as crypto.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-31
----------------------------------------

Beautiful locks. I mean waves. Nothing liked being waved at with such force. I feel ocean misty.


Puny god needs help getting money, I mean converts.

No denial. Know your enemy. Create change courage. Love everyone by treating them well regardless of how you feel about them. Everyone in. Life goes on.
As Carl Sagan said, no one is coming to save us. Certainly no corrupted gov is going to un-corrupt itself. That has never happened in history. The US gov is a lost cause.

The question is now is who is going to have the courage to change.
The good news is I have all the solutions(tm). Irreni is ready to go. You start by forming a mesh node, an MGO. Then mesh nodes form a mesh. This is designed to work within any existing gov. It's like acid, Mesh dissolves existing govs from the inside out. Mesh is not revolution, its innovation.
I was telling my sister I think people are unwilling to admit the reality that both parties are effed because that would leave them feeling 100% helpless. 

This is a failure of imagination. We are 100% powerless agains DC ignoring its responsibilities and obligations. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
The D strategy is simple: run against an even worse R opponent. With only 2 choices then you are locked in. Ds spend money on the most deplorable R candidates to run against. 

If we buy into that again-and-again then we are insane fools.
The Ds are counting on the majority of American voters who don't follow politics to win them the 2026 House. They don't need you, they don't care about you. The Ds only care about power and money. Same as the Rs. 

Know it. No denial. Know your enemy.
Both parties need to go.  Rs and Ds have burned all their trust. There is nothing left.

Yet who has the courage to say this? I don't get it. 

Destroy both parties, no past and present federal politician should run again. 

If we are not willing to take decisive action we continue the status quo.
People go on about term limits. However, that experiment has been run in several States.  It doesn't address the root cause of corruption, the money. California has had term limits since the 90s. The quality of the politicians hasn't changed one bit. 

Yet people still go on about term limits.
Here's a simple innovation that gets bandied about like some yarn ball by kittens: national ballot measures. 

People bring it up, but then, poof! 

I actually wrote an example implementation. It's complicated because it needs to be implemented by the States.

irreni.social/the-national...
The fact that social media is just whining, pearl clutching, and teeth gnashing is a reflection of who we are and always have been. Thoughts and prayers cause us no inconvenience. Change does. 

As my brother was fond of saying, you can't get ahead by staying even.
Courage today is not defined by acts of facing violence. 

Courage today is defined by getting out of comfort zones and taking risks with cultural change. 

The replacement for Democracy is ready to go. All anyone has to do is have courage to do it.

irreni.social
It is our refusal to acknowledge failed culture as failed that will kill us. It is easy to blame Christian Nationalism. But the root cause is our inability to wholesale reject religion for the failure and stupidity of bronze age thinking. 

Tech: change in a heartbeat
Culture: continue failure
Religion needs to be rejected outright without any discussion because religion has no merit.

Religion fails at every turn. How is it the Catholic Church with centuries of pedophile priests and mass graves of children from indigenous schools is still allowed to function?
I don't think it's a coincidence that I'm neurodivergent and of have bezliions of social innovation ideas. I think it is something baked into our human nature that we refuse to innovate culture. 

We are going to die on that hill, refusing to innovate culture.
We have a tech startup engine that launches new innovations every day, yet have the same Constitution from 1880s. 

It will never cease to confound me that we are mad innovators of tech and completely ignore social innovation . 

Ranked choice voting is weak tea.

irreni.social
TIL that the Democratic Party has lost Pod Save America. Pod Save America regurgitates DC propaganda. A Democratic Senator went on Breaking Points and David plays a clip from Pod Save America juxtaposed to the Democratic party position. Party? What Party?

www.youtube.com/watch?v=8iWg...
----------------------------------------
2025-07-30
----------------------------------------


We sold life insurance policies. In our AD&D campaign set in Tolkien Middle Earth, Sauron sold life insurance. For the PC's this worked well except if one couldn't pay you went on a evil quest. We played him as Lawful. The evil? His life was being insured because PCs wouldn't kill him. :)
Trevor's video does make me wonder, when is Christian Nationalism going after AD&D and all the derivative  bezillion video games like World of Warcraft again, Satanic Panic 2.0? All these video games have contrived gods and lore. 

You know it's coming.
I remember my disappointment when "Deities and Demigods" was renamed to "Legends and Lore" due to the Satanic Panic. I find it odd that Trevor doesn't go into D&D here, the best toy/game I ever got. The irony of the Satanic Panic is that D&D is everywhere now. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1iF...
The gov providing aid and comfort to  a sexual abuser won't do anything about mass shootings. 

Tell me again why Democracy is so great? 

As Churchill said, "Democracy is terrible gov, it just happens to be the best we have so far." 

This was meant as a challenge, not an epitaph for a gravestone
thoughts and prayers, because we can't be bothered to actually doing any but the bare minimum. Arguably thoughts and prayers aren't doing anything at all. 

Religion, ever the moral cover for the immoral action, never the right moral action.
I looked it up:
"A total of 198 people have been killed and 881 people have been wounded in 205 shootings, as of June 30, 2025. "

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of...
America, noun: 1. another day another mass shooting.
Good break-down by Kyle. Democrats will probably win the mid-terms, but they will do so with their lowest approval ratings in 35 years. Had enough? Democracy is dead folks. Life is just waiting on us to get out of our denial and form Mesh Society today.
irreni.social

www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZtMy...
----------------------------------------
2025-07-29
----------------------------------------


Hello, I'm a person in tv or film. I'm the designated techie. I can decrypt and access anything in key strokes. I can make bombs. If I think the audience might think I know too much, I have techie friends, especially Anonymous for breaking and entering gov facilities.
I just wrote a much better take than that slop article in Wired on Perl. 

My advisor at UC Berkeley was Mike Stonebraker. He would get  annoyed with students referencing magazine articles and used this gem:

Those who can do,
those who can't teach,
those who can't teach write magazine articles.
I write in Perl, you read in LISP, or whatever you need.
Once we start down the road with overlays then we will land on personalized language design overlays. AI will land on machine code and create the personalized language overlays for humans.
History would lead me to the conclusion that the next language design leap will be overlays. Humans have created two distinct thinking camps today: functional and procedural.  A language that can easily overlay one with t'other will have greater adoption.
Software language design is part of the human experience. It needs to fit in. Larry Wall understood thus. I have yet to encounter another who did. One size does not fit all.
Mesh society as envisioned by Irreni has tiny mesh nodes of fixed size thirty people to maximize personal morality. It also has horizontal only society growth to maximize project size to galaxy and universe proportions to manage climate: stop the expansion of the universe from killing us.
Irreni has two deaign principles that are in effect one:

1. Everyone in
2. Life goes on

Everyone gets custom moral treatment and the human species goes on for millions, billions, and trillions of years.
I just left Illumina. Illumina is designing personalized medicine. Personalized medicine will be much more effective than the same dosage for everyone. Personalized morality will be likewise. One size fits all morality of religion kills.
I designed Irreni with this in mind. The Golden Rule is one size fits all evil. I rejected it and replaced it with the information rule: 

Treat people as they are, not as you are. 

The LGBT+ movement is an information rule movement, and the future.
There are a few design razors to always keep in mind when designing, or separating concerns, for humans. 

One size does not fit all is one them. 

Regex is a mini language that encapsulates this in all software language design today.
The functional programming snobs being arrogant about brains that model code differently doesn't make better language design because it is less code. Functional programming just fits a minority of human thinking patterns better than procedural.
Functional programming is a cognitive trade off: the language does more with less code. This means the human has to page in and model more in their brain. Procedural being more explicit is proven a better load trade-off as human behavior.
The Wired article mentioned LISP. 

Functional programming advocates conflate the cognitive clarity of a small language with functional design. Functional languages have never had mass appeal, so maintaining design rigor is much easier and possible.
AI is very much in its infancy, which is why it is in the high level language business.
AI will eventually only generate machine language when it understands what it is doing. Why generate the extra layers? AI will create syntactic sugar for humans on demand, Python, C, whatever the human asks.
In fact, RISC was the last language innovation in hardware and the R is reduced, the opposite of bloat  all high-level  languages adopt.
Regex is a language within a language. A mini game within a game. This will be the future of language design eventually because good design is separation of concerns. No one has yet to replace the machine -> assembly -> C design language architecture.
Perl's had a design: text processing. Its most unreadable, least humanely comprehensible core is the best small language design yet: regular expressions. Every language uses Perl regex. Perl is a regex wrapper engine. Which made it perfect for early web sites.
I'm a skeptic, no evidence no interest. I never had any interest in the religion of my childhood <- life long atheist. Programming language claims are mostly untested with no evidence. They gain adoption simply by popularity. Fine. But I detest the fanaticism of religious proportions.
In did a study on claims Java was "better" than C++. I did a survey of around 20 reports of complete code rewrites. What I found was most of the benefits were indistinguishable from a plain rewrite. The "throw your first version/prototype code out and rewrite it" best practice came out of this era.
Most code is write once. In any active code base the Ziffian distribution applies. 80% of the rewrite is in 20% of the code. AI introduces disposable code never read. Just complete replacement with new prompts because LLMs don't understand what they write.
"C is a small language and not served well by a big book" is a design statement. The C Bible in the 90s was 150 pages. Python "In a Nutshell" by OReilly last I bought it was 1600 pages.
I've been writing Python since the late 90s. It is suffering the same demise as Java: be everything to everybody. Write once run anywhere. Problem is this is antithetical to the concept of design: separation of concerns.
Python is becoming Javascipt, for obvious reasons, especially in its package management and code management. Black was progress. Mypy   makes code worse in readability. Same with Typescript. These typing systems have no science behind them. All the claims are hokum.
Perl is fun to work with. Damien Conway wrote Perl best practices. Book was a boon to converging on readable style. I can read machine language, assembly and C. I wrote kernel modules. Anything interfacing with hardware directly, especially before standards like Plug-N-Play was messy.
A "language" needs constant updating by humans. The Perl community ditched Larry Wall and became toxic. Parrot and Perl 6 were bad takes and years of wasted effort. The packaging system is a boondoggle. Nothing to do with the "language", but rather bad management.
The only way we can possibly restart our gov is to disband both parties and start new ones founded upon following the law when in gov. That new party foundation needs concrete rules for instant removal. Zero tolerance for corruption.
"Let’s get an Amendmenoverturning Citizens United and ban stock trading by members of Congress."

People aren't getting it. T is ignoring the law with the Supreme Courts backing. What good is any amendment gonna do? It is an outlaw gov.
Closing in, need to add Universal Basic Food and Universal Basic Housing.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-28
----------------------------------------

Coming to an ICE interment camp this summer.
The Democratic Party plan since 2006: do nothing and just run against Republican destruction.
Blessed are we who can laugh at ourselves, for we shall never cease to be amused.
AI is the cherry on top of a late-stage capitalism Sundae. No social conscience, just a greed race to become the next Google.
Karma is a virus. 

Covid is very much still here. Churches were shut down because they were super-spreaders. Concentrating people = virus heaven. 

Giving people covid is cruel.
Washington refused to torture prisoners of war for information because he said that's what Britain does and that he was fighting to create something better than Britain. 

What are we better than now?
I check in on conservative news now and again. They are promoting that the concentration camps are not cruel because detainees can self-deport at any time. 

This is a conservative self-own: make conditions worse in detention than what people fled in order to encourage them to self-deport.
"Some people what they don't know you can't tell 'um." - Louis Armstrong
Back in 2018 "algorithms" were the "AI" of the day. AI panic and algorithm panic are symptoms of society that panics.












Original
Art is over the edge is a meme I made for years.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-27
----------------------------------------


HI! Just realized I wasn't following you on here after buying After The Storm? I didn't see a post here about the song? 

Cheers!
Chicken in every pot. His mouth sure is writing a lot of checks. Trump is suggesting tariff refunds. When will we ever stop falling for this crap.
I believe we need:

Universal Basic
1. Income
2. Food
3. Housing
4. Healthcare

However, I also believe we are at the end of the line for Democracy. Corruption rules and never relents.

Time to start anew with fresh mesh (society).
irreni.social
Cruel and unusual treatment is prohibited by the Constitution. Yet here we are. These camps have conditions no prison would create due to the conditions being unconstitutional.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-26
----------------------------------------

The web was created in 1993. Porn on the web a nansecond later. It took them 30 years to put age verification on legitimate businesses. Seriously, how low-tech is age verification?
It cracks me up that capitalists don't understand capitalism. I haven't checked since 2005, but back then porn was 25% of total Internet bandwidth. Today, we have YouTube, et all so I'm sure  that number is much lower. Still, that level of demand can't be just hand waved away.
As far as the law of unintended consequences go, porn drove initial early adoption of VHS and the internet. Uneven laws across countries and some new dark web/VPN invention can make millions on "pent up" demand.
I guess with porn id age verification we are going to have yet another round of, "I know it when I see it", of what defines porn talk. Is any naked picture porn? Boobies? Web sites skirting the legal definition will become  million dollar overnight easy money makers.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-25
----------------------------------------

Discussion at engaging far-right Jubilee:

www.youtube.com/watch?v=-AVB...
irreni.social
Frum is up there with William "The Bloody" Krystal for warmongering during the Iraq War. Rot in h*ll. Frum has never had a good take. Harris reminds me of Hitchens. Detest the war takes but appreciate the anti-theism. Harris on Israel is disgusting.  Still listen to Harris. Never Frum.
Word. Last word.
Being unwilling to sacrifice a few, or yourself, when we ask that of soldiers defines political character these days. The Ds are cowards who put themselves before country. They aren't going to fix anything.
I'm not motivated by the Epstein files. Why?

Joe Biden had access to them for four years, did nothing with them, and then allowed the Democrats to lose to Trump without ever using them.

If they are that damaging Ds deliberatey lost.
The collapse of the Internet and Democracy suffer the same root cause: no social plan to scale. They work okay with a few millions, collapse at hundreds of millions. 

The large scale plan is mesh society. 

Irreni.social
My take on this as well, as is stated in my bio. We need to fix society. That is why I invented Irreni, to fix society.
Every day in the news I'm  reminded of:

"The state of technological advancement today is such that we have guided missiles and misguided men." -MLK

Science & tach deliberatey ignore society collapsing  all around them. The denial is as strong as rotten fish in a grocery  and as repugnant.
FWIW, there is no gov currency in mesh society. The power of the Internet allows us to barter directly. 

Barter consolidation is via contracts. A mesh node is the unit of hire and negotiates mesh trade for  labor. The mesh node of fixed size 30 people then distributes to individuals.
The key to private currency is creating a large enough user base. Warcraft had millions, Bannon made millions. 

So if you don't like public currency, create a private one. Just don't use crypto, the technology required is a shell game they use to sucker people.
Long term answer is mesh society. Irreni.social 

Crypto was invented for this very reason, just different anti-gov motivation. Crypto is mostly a scam. However, anyone can create private currency. Steve Bannon made millions by private -> public: Warcraft game gold to dollars.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-24
----------------------------------------

Democracy is reactionary only, not proactive. Every single bubble from dotcom  to crypto was seen years in advance and Demcracy did nothing. Time to upgrade to mesh society.

Irreni.social
This looks interesting. 

liu.se/en/research/...
In 2000 the UN estimated that by 2030 3% of the world's population would be emigrating due to climate change. 

The anti-immigration rise is in part fueled by global warming. 

Democracy has proven itself unable to be proactive, only reactive.

Join mesh society today! Join an MGO. 
irreni.social



Science and tech has always had an ethics and morality problem. Even something as simple as the experiment reproducibility problem as Xcd pointed out this week. We scoff at anti-vaxxers but admit we can't reproduce experiments since 2010, a keystone of the foundation for trusting science.
The crypto industry only exists because of zero percent interest rates. Free money. Free money was used by hedge funds to buy up real-estate in huge quantities as well as tech brows seeding crypto with billions. The history of free money for 10-12 years is going to be devastating.
At Illumina I worked on cutting edge new tech for medicine. And also old tech, my last project was 16S. Still, I can't help but wonder that if our objective is to save lives then perhaps addressing the underlying anti-vax movement would have more impact. And is more needed.
Rewatching Luke Cage. I'm always impressed with the total package. Casting, cinematography, writing, action, humor.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-23
----------------------------------------

Maine has returned to its regularly scheduled programming if lows overnight in the mid 50s and highs in the mid 70s.

It's great, just like the SF Bay weather.
I don't know who needs to hear this but AOC replaced the 2nd most powerful Democrat in the House when she won her first term. In her first month she bent to the knee to Pelosi and has voted along Democratic party lines ever since. She is a not a progressive. She's a fraud and always has been.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-22
----------------------------------------

Jubilee has been coming up in my YouTube feed lately. David explains why we shouldn't go there.
Are you 21st century literate? We need to unlearn Democracy as we the people and learn mesh society as we the people. Now.

Irreni.social




Me, "Project 2025 and crap like this are why people are leaving and are angry at Christianty."
Christian, "Why are you so angry at the puny god? Why do you talk about the puny god so much?"
Kitty didn't like being posed for hours. Thhhbt.

"Get a better candidate" is not an insurmountable task.

Plato would beg to differ circa, checks notes, 50 BCE.

Politics requires people to compromise their values and ethics, something most sensible people won't do. Reading works.

Lies, damn lies, and has anybody checked to see if the number of registered Republicans has significantly shrank? Trumps 90% approval rating among Rs could easily be to T disapprovers leaving the party. 100% approval could happen .

If you come to my web site about Irreni World Scale, the home of mesh society and MGOs, you'll get exposed to some great ideas. That's it, no begging, no payment options.

So do yourself a favor and introduce yourself to a Democracy alternative. 100% conspiracy and vibes free.

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-07-21
----------------------------------------

This topic is at that heart of mesh society. My take on it is that we need an AI that is large enough in computing to simulate the Earth in its entirety but not become reality. A simulation should not be able to detect its own influence. 

irreni.social/complexity/
I would regularly buy O'Reilly Nutshell books in the 2000s. I have the 2.4 nutshell book at about 400 pages I think. The 3.6 book I bought had 1600 pages or something crazy. That's not a nutshell O'Reilly.  Python is trying to be everything to everyone and is too large IMHO.
Interestingly enough, prompt engineering was predicted by Vernor Vinge in his book, Rainbows End, in the early 2000s. Software engineers will become even more expensive in direct correlation to their coming decrease in demand. 

I need to raise my rates, ha!
...as possible as a strategy for less code equals less bugs in new code. LLM will not fix bugs because it has no way to fix what it originally used as correct.    LLMs will create an era of  disposable code. Always rewriting from scratch to address problems using new prompts.
It is this surface level programner that will be replaced the easiest by AI. AI as LLM  is copy-paste technology and will not make any trade-offs between balancing reuse versus sustainability of small dependencies when copying code. In fact, LLM will tend towards as many dependecies...
Sadly, Python is going down the dependency H*ll hole as well with poetry and hundreds of large package dependencies. Perhaps this is because Javascript as the number one used language is one cause. Or perhaps  just surface level understanding of programming means pull in everything.
This balancing act is where Javascript fails. Javascript as a language is bad design because it encourages in all cases pulling in massive packages just to get one feature. This is why Javascript is dependency h*ll.
There is a forever tension between re-inventing the wheel, reuse, and using the smallest set of primitives possible to keep code sustainable. This is one facet of the art of programming. Should I copy just the small piece I need into my code or bring in a larger library with far more features?
It is therefore easy to criticize old code implementations. That is not a C problem. 

C as a small language is not just good for low level work, small is easier to evolve. The hardest to evolve are the most structured, like J2EE.
Language designers only think about new code, not sustainability. No one knows the future, like with AI emerging, so new code only design is reasonable. However, over years as people and language design evolves then all older code gets hacked and patched to death.
Kernel code like with Linux lasts for years and decades. It has been patched for new hardware while maintaining backwards compatibility. Bug fixing rarely if ever rewites code to keep the code clean. Bug fixing is hacking in the narrative sense.
I can always tell script kiddies when they claim C is a bad programming language. Systems programming is herding hardware interfaces with incoherent implementations. It is the hardware code they hate. Guess what, that's not a language problem, that's systems engineering.
Put class name spaces into a narrative like a book does, and then code becomes as easy to follow as a story.

In my 40 years of  coding it is always a pleasure to run into other storytellers. Sadly, it is rare. You end up having to piece together a jumbled set of words that are incoherent as words.
Subtext underpins good software code. I write code with strong story telling features like book, chapter and thesis. Hackers don't . This was the original usage of hacker, a hatchet job on coherent code and not infiltrators.  

Object oriented? Meh. Class name spaces tell a story.
In general I don't  like black. It is too easy, everyone looks good in black. Men get the short end of the fashion stick with black tie events.
Hate kills.
I was reminded  that programming is largely sub-text. When programmers debate functional versus procedural sub-text it is all out war. Flamewar.  The thing is programmers don't understand the cognitive science or that they are communicating in sub-text. It is as funny as it is toxic. True comedy.
In my profession the functional programming people are as dogmatic about being universal and pedagogy worthy as Shakespeare is to English.

Next time I get in that conversation, I'm  going to recommend that thry spicy it up with bawdry material if they want to attract people, ha!
This topic reminds me of Steve Martin telling a plumbing joke. It is funny when people who gatekeep are snobs. The number one rule of writing is to write to your audience because it is only arrogance to believe you'll connect with everyone. Which is why even simple  pledges are so obnoxious.
Yeah, but I bet in its day Shakespeare was the equivalent of a silent movie for the general audience. People were illiterate and most certainly didn't understand the flowery vocabulary. I read somewhere that Shakespeare invented words like crazy.
Shakespeare as a primer? Puritans felt the Bible was all one needed. After a 100 years or so they figured out that a.) the concept of a primer, and b.) Eventually  John Milton wrote them. Now Moby Dick is a high tale. Combines direct text and sub-text without feeling one is missing out.
Well met. I have never met anybody who likes Shakespeare who agrees with me, and everyone who doesn't does. It is a good touchstone of reading compatibility. High art for me is sci-fi.
How do I know they haven't read my resume?

Most common interview question: So where did you go to school?
Happy Sunday. Friday was my last day at Illumina. 

I'm reminded that I've been a contractor since the Internet took off. As someone who had had over 20 contracts and applied to at least 3 times that many jobs, no one has read my social media. And more often than not, my resume. 🙃
Agreed with vigor. Reading ability is a huge spectrum, including many who can't  read. Shakespeare isn't for everybody or the average reader. This has always been my complaint teaching Shakespeare in high-school. College sure. 

Also Shakespeare is garbage. Art is opinionated, or it is not art.
Rage Against the Machine has a song from, checks notes, the 90s about 1,500 Mexicans buried at the border when the US first started building the wall. 

There were 100,000 / mo. Now there isnt? Is anyone asking what happened to all those people? 

One thing is for sure, MAGA doesn't care.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-20
----------------------------------------

Sci-fi writers have been sounding this alarm since the 40s. My fav is Zelazny's, "Lord of Light". Since the atom bomb had just been invented it was common to predict society separates into the intellectuals and MAGA camps after atomic war. Tropes like going to Mars are common.
"Now imagine A REVOLUTION of the PEOPLE. "

No need, lots of history exists. 

Today the globalization that started in the 80s means that civil war will have world ramifications leading to world deaths and suffering. Cutting off US AID is killing people.

Say no to revolution.

irreni.social
Time to ditch capitalism. Fortunately the replacement is ready to go:

irreni.social
"he was at a 90 percent approval rating [among Republicans]".

He left out the "among Republicans" part. Because Republicans are amoral. Trumps had an  85% approval rating among Republicans for years now.
With great power comes great responsibility. Unfortunately people take away the wrong lesson from this. The right lesson is that great power should never exist, only distributed power.

Irreni.social
George Washington literally was in the front lines leading his army. It wasn't until like the 5th battle his generals convinced him to hang back. Arguably one of the richest men in America at the time. Painting of him leading in a boat was brand.
Better stated, they don't live in reality, but one a false world of their own choosing.
Which is Irreni World Scale exists. 

Join an MGO today and learn about responsible computing, including AI.
Not going to happen.

Capitalism, noun: 1. making easy money by exploiting human proclivities that humans can't resist, especially fear and diet.
Maine needs to get with the program and move power lines underground. We've had as many as 500,000 lose power, like half the State population.
Same, since 1985. Because I quit watching all TV in 1985. The warnings of existential threat of social media today was TV when I was 23. I took it seriously.
Here's the thing about crypto: it was never used to accomplish any of the ideals put forth in 2008. 

It has only ever been used as pump-and-dump, get-rich-schemes.

To the moon is the crypto motto.
Christian white privilege.

Christianty, noun: 1. a perfection of convincing others of being morally superior as moral cover for ever worsening immorality and wickedness. 2. a con artist.
I am an Anti-theist who opposes  indoctrination in education.
But l don't support banning ignorance.
In school: educate about faiths to overcome ignorance.
In government: ignorance is fatal. 
In life: oppose ignorance but never ban because ignorance comes in infinite forms.
We need to become cave people again and start building under ground.

Trump's approval thing among Rs went up even with the latest Epstein news. Geez us.

Family Values means CSA.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-19
----------------------------------------

Meme stock
Answer: mesh society where mesh replaces hierarchy

No hierarchy means:
1. No patriarchy
2. No bureaucracy 
3. No nations
4. No currency (barter system using computers)
5. No capitalism

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
The thing about private currency is anyone can make it. 

This is pure, unadulterated corruption to back private currency as public tender.
Crypto is just private currency. You or I could write "$1 billion" on a peace of paper and it is the same thing. This is public dollar backing private currency make it de-facto public currency. Corruption.
If  one has a large appetite for I don't know then that curtails preconceptions. My starting position is I don't know.
With the help of Nancy Pelosi. In 2006 Pelosi unilaterally decided to not investigate any war profiteering or war crimes by Bush admin.  Because the nation needed to heal and move on...

...to Trump.

Trump is the result of a terrible decision to not hold people accountable.
Had enough? Join an MGO today! 

irreni.social
What I'm currently nerding out too....
www.commodore.net/product-page...
my favorite color: all of them
----------------------------------------
2025-07-18
----------------------------------------

You know what they say, follow the money.

😀

ICE just got billions.
Never trust a person whose opinions are their source of income.
This is how you pick politicians going forward, are they promoting ideas for party redesign or are they pandering. Especially pandering ideas the party will never support. 

Get real or get gaslit.
The choices are party or king. Rs chose king. Ds are on that cusp. Everything hinges on redesigning party politics. 

But nobody in DC is talking about redesigning parties. Not even Bernie. 

Fix parties or suffer a King.
My simple demonstration here of a spoke party design versus platform had more political thought than all of DC. They won't even acknowledge their party is failed. Instead they prop up failures like Cumo. You can't get ahead by staying even, or not admitting failure. The parties are failed.
Further in Spoke party design then new spokes are created that stick out from the hub. They can be contradictory: pro or anti-abortion within the same party, but always in support of the hub.
For example, a spoke party design meant to address the complication of contradictory political agenda. A spike design requires a hub the spokes align around. In our case, universal basic income, housing, food, and Healthcare.
Until then our politics is pandering. We have to fix the party system, not just start new ones without more thought than just doing it.
Only after a thorough understanding of why both parties failed can we design new party theory. This is where just saying, "I'm starting a new party", is flawed. We need new party design debated in the public eye. When this happens then you'll know someone is serious. Until then...
If I thought Democracy could be saved as a design then the first thread that has to be pulled are the parties. For so many reasons that should have books written about, both parties are not salvagable. We need the books to tell us history and what went wrong.
We don't  have any deets on any promises because we are just being pandered too. Health care represents a significant chunk of our GDP. How is that addressed with any universal proposal? We don't know because these are not serious people. Just celebrities looking for followers using pandering.
If all we are willing to settle for is pandering then we deserve our destruction. 

Life is orders of magnitude more complicated than 1776, yet we engage in simple sound bites. Delivering on universal health care will be complicated. What's it look like? How does the transition look like?
Politics is complicated. Free bus rides is not complicated. What is needed most right now, in the US and worldwide, is political change. Our processes are creaky, outdated, and still running on  design of the 18th century.
If you don't want a dictator you want a party. I'll give Elon this much credit: starting a new party has to be the opening move of anyone being serious about American politics. Zohran is just pandering.
I don't  understand why people get smitten with pandering. Show me the capability. Show me you have any thought about how to bring about change. I have more writing about political theory on the Irreni blog than all of our legislators in DC combined for the last 40 years.
Error, Thomas Paine. The point is their are no such writers today. Which is just really sad. We are just living in with pandering. AOC or Mandani talking health care and free bus rides with no party backing is never going to happen. To make new ideas happen we need writing.
I started working on Irreni by studying the transition to Democracy away from Monarchy. The founders of this country wrote books, newspaper articles, and speeches about political theory. Washington, not a writer, found one, Thomas Payne.
Had enough?

Learn about mesh gov, a Democracy replacement, even if only to consider possibilities. 

Irreni.social
ACAB



----------------------------------------
2025-07-17
----------------------------------------

Need to do the hobbit thing and build under ground for climate control. Waterproof of course.

Why are Christians persecuting Christians? You'd think all these immigrants being Catholic would mean something.
Universal Basic Income. Prior to Social Security, aka UBI, the elder lived in abject poverty in poor houses of terrible conditions. After Social Security poor houses were gone in 20 years, no more. Don't give unemployment, give UBI.
"We are all just folk now." -Capt Malcolm Reynolds, Serenity 

One of the many quotable lines from Firefly/ Serenity.

Seeing us as all one people is a 21st century aspiration.

DEI is one folk oriented. Caring for people in need is too.

Also, it is very emotionally efficient to see all as human.
"Television is proof positive that people would rather look at anything else than each other." - Ann Landers, advice columnist mid-20th Century.
States need to convene a Constitutional Convention to vote on invalidating this gov for violating their oaths to the C.

Also to bar any current or past office holder and the Democratic and Republican parties from the new Federal gov.

Time to act.





Irreni World Scale is a Democracy and hierarchy replacement, mesh society. Why not take a few minutes to read all about it? 
Irreni.social

@bsky.app Please, no ads. If you allow political ads this place will become a cesspool.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-16
----------------------------------------

Future prediction or statement of the obvious? You decide.

We are going to need to start building housing underground for climate control.
Never Trumpers still don't get it. The base wants crazy.
Had enough? Join an MGO.

Irreni.social 

Also, States need to convene a Constitutional Convention, declare the gov invalid for not upholding oaths and then form a new Federal gov.
Useless Collins and Silent Mills. Health care is a disaster no politician is touching.
"Inspiration: thinking about rebuilding and restaffing our federal agencies after we oust the oligarchs."

Ummmm, who wants to tell them...


----------------------------------------
2025-07-15
----------------------------------------

William "The Bloody" Krystal being promoted by liberals watching Bulwark is a total whitewash.
People are quoting the Lancelot study staating 12-14 million deaths from cutting US-AID over 5 years.

Back in 2004 the Lancelot estimated 600,000 Iraqis died the first year of the Iraq invasion. Neither party batted an eyelash.

Previously Vietnam. Here, have a photo of Charlie Kirk.



Superman and Jurassic Park being the summer blockbuster movies is just, sad. So many new books every year. 

The Iron Druid has some good world building.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-14
----------------------------------------

Replacement, not secession.
States need to convene a Constitutional Convention. 
1. Declare this current gov illegitimate for not upholding oaths to the Constitution.
2. Form a new Federal government and exclude all current and past office holders from it, as well as exclude the Republican and Democratic parties.
" The purpose of these notes is to motivate people to slide on over and engage mesh society as a replacement for hierarchy society. Mesh society is better society for delivering life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness."
irreni.social/no-nation-no...
Every authoritarian regime has this exact problem. This is why they have an "elite" guard within the military. Saddam Hussein called his "elite" guard,  "Republican". They get paid more to kill civilians and carry out assassinations. I kinda think T will call his R too. 😀
Absolutely do your homework. 

Go to irreni.social and dig in. 

Have fun!
The progressive move today is to join an MGO. Nation building is throwing good money after bad. The patient is terminal. There is no going back. Size matters and large nations cannot withstand corruption domination. Too many we the people conflicting priorities.
A massive culture change from nation to mesh sovereignty will take hundreds of years. This is why Irreni is designed to work within nations to dissolve nations slowly. Contrast this to nation-on-nation wars or revolution.

The world is too interdependent for wars and revolutions.
Nations are not sustainable. Hierarchy is why. Hierarchy with bureaucracy always, always empire builds. Larger is seen as better.

To fix that, we need a mesh design of fixed size population. Further it needs to be a tiny size: 30. Tiny fish only ensures aggression is futile.
There is another lesson as well: large culture is horrendous at being reactionary.

Every culture bubble since the dotcom bust has been widely discussed by the public. Yet nations had zero reaction, nothing prepared.
Mesh societies with tribal size sovereignty have an insular, Balkanization problem 200,000 years old. Correct use of the Internet prevents this. 

Would it surprise you to know that Irreni already includes that correct usage? 

Irreni is designed to scale infinitely.

Join an MGO!

Irreni.social
What does it mean to manage culture death? In a word, compartmentalize.

Irreni World Scale changes the fundamental culutre organization from nation to MGO, micro-governing organization of fixed size 30 people. 

Small organizations can mourn culture loss while progressing.
However, what I see perhaps that the public is missing is culture death needs managing. It is not enough to just push progress alone. Anthropologists have been warning about the devastating effects of white nationalism death throws since the 90s given the low birth rate.
You can choose to celebrate the decades long gains or lament the things that still need change. 

I personnaly don't see a reason for moral panic or existential dread overall. Overall progressives have pulled off great strides, greater than historically recorded and thus expected.
Culture can only change slowly. As a #nuerodivergent person, I wish that was not the case. 

Cup half full or half empty.
Zero sum game.
Walk and chew gum at the same time.

These are perpetual debates of culture change and priorities.
The trans movement, like the gay movement, needs to strap in for a deliberate decades long campaign. Sadly, the gay movement is going to see setbacks as well as white dying culture death throws. 

The LGBTQ+ movement needs to publicly promote that their fight is caught up in a greater culture war.
Ooof.  Propaganda works. Sadly.
I am one of them and my reasoning is corruption:
1. Both parties make decisions 100% for some corruption agenda. 
2. See 1. 

An 18 year, eight country war was both parties. 

Ds don't want to burn it all down right now is the major difference.

The end result for Ds will be king, just smoother.
Further, unlike with gay culture acceptance, the trans movement hasn't acknowledged that the movement will take decades. 

It is unfortunate that the trans movement started  when white culture at large finally realized they were dying and use it as part of an attempt to save their dying asses .
...dug in with long-term determination. 

These two reasons, Christian white culture death and LGBTQ culture acceptance, are in opposition. 

1. Like the dotcom, banking, and other bubbles, we took no preventive action to mitigate this disaster of Christian white culture dying.
Another reason I brought up waking up from history. 

2. Perspective. I was closely following the LGBTQ movement when we first started using that acronym. Anthropologists warned it would take decades for a campaign of acceptance to take root. The community listened and dug in ...
I bring up waking up from history for two reasons. 

1. We've predicted since the 90s that Chrstian white culture would eventually act like a cornered animal as their demographic slowly lost power as their percent population declined. Minorities were predictably going to replace them. Fox news.
Waking up from history. Trump is definitely a regression to king. However, American culture has always been racist and anti-immigration. Progress is always a struggle to both maintain and move forward. The more progress, the more maintenance.
Public smoking. Restaurants, air planes all had smoking sections, like  air didn't circulate. And the dreaded case of only smoking room availability at a hotel.
I don't know why people think the gov has the only copy of Epstein's client list. Many copies could easily exist. Its blackmail potential and danger potential go hand in hand.  /shrug
----------------------------------------
2025-07-13
----------------------------------------

You just know at some point ransom letters are coming. DOJ / FBI are going to be like, "not us, we didn't do it, not our problem."
Rights don't exist. Responsibilities do. We have a responsibility to each other to work together to be socially responsible. 

Universal basic:
1. Income
2. Food
3. Healthcare
4. Housing

Or, just jump the Democracy shark and go straight to mesh society:
irreni.social
The fracturing of the MAGA cabal is inevitable. Those people are lying, disrespecting, backstabbers to each other. They will start tearing down each other. Haters gonna hate. Liars going to lie. Grifters gonna grift. Backstabbers going to stab. Indiscriminately.
As a kid in the 70s I played DND. The thing about evil is evil doesn't trust or respect each other. Evil played as evil doesn't last long. Evil has to see themselves as good with high levels if trust and respect, just a different culture.
Because gangs shoot back. Going to prison is just another Tuesday.
As a species we need to junk hierarchy that doesn't scale and switch to mesh that scales infinitely. By design.

If we don't then we will have mass population die-off until we find some population level where hierarchy becomes viable again. Possibly billions. Just no.

We need to move forward.
Mesh society is quick society. It breaks down all change adaption into MGO chunks. Each MGO only adapts to a small slice.

We can't focus today because of hierarchy. Hierarchy always empire builds albeit as a nation or a company: bigger is better.

Bigger is worse for adapting to change.
Today's problem with the rate of tech change then is not the rate of change. It is everyone being inundated with all new tech. 

We need to focus. In software we call this the divide-and-conquer strategy. Quicksort breaks ever large program down to a single pair before sorting.
For example, assume your MGOs occupation is river dams. MGOs are the unit of hire. Projects contract MGOs, not people. Your MGO has a river dam culture. Perhaps it spans hundreds of years. Your MGO is up on the very latest of river dam tech and creates new high tech. So it is with every MGO.
If we compartmentalize change with cultures of size 30 people then we will overall be able to adapt to far faster rates of tech change than today. Each MGO just adapts to their small slice.

It is kinda like an assembly line of culture.

Managing that is done with projects.
Cultural focus and sovereign autonomy means the MGO can adopt just the technology that fits them, not everyone adopting everything tech all the time. Focus.

Containing culture through focus is key to managing tech advancement. We compartmentalize change.
Irreni mesh nodes are called micro-governing organizations, or MGOs. MGOs are fixed size 30 people. MGOs are survival units mandated to have one years survival supplies: food, water, energy, etc.

24 of the 30 people work full-time supporting the MGO. This is the cultural focus.
Can we manage the rate of tech advancement? 

Yes. Easy.

The key is focus. 

Humans gathered as tribes in groups of around 100 for 200,000 years. 

We just need to do that again, with a twist.
Religious morality fails time-and-time again in head-on collisions with tech. Religion's best conditions are pre-tech, pre-education. Now religion is vaporware. People lose their virginity at 15-18 and don't get married until 28-30. Then they get divorced. Til death do you part? Extremely rare.
This hit NYC hard. Women who had new husbands lined up couldn't divorce required to be fault based. Judges were getting frustrated because husbands couldn't be found to sue. 

Enter no-fault divorce. Women divorced gone husbands and remarried. Almost immediately the divorce rate jumped to 50%.
Let's talk divorce. The automobile as tech induced no-fault divorce and the 50% divorce rate. 

After  WWII automobiles because affordable and ubiquitous. One unforeseen consequence is men were abandoning families, moving to a new State and starting another family.
Hierarchy doesn't scale to large populations. Full stop. The larger the population the more corruption at the top. Absolute power corrupts absolutely because all the resources concentrate. 

Mesh society is the future. Democracy is dead. It can't be revived.

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
So we can sit around feeling sorry for ourselves bemoaning the rate of technological change undermining our evolutionary slow adaptation skills. 

Or, we embrace with great power brings great responsibility. 

I chose the latter. Irreni World Scale, a mesh society, is designed to manage change.
Another tech change that is beneficial that people don't think about is: education. 

Educated people behave very differently than uneducated people. For starters, they don't rely on tradition and superstition, completely undermining religion and patriarchy.

Life is complicated. Act like it.
So, are we going to go back to the days of 35 year life spans so we can MAGA? I don't thinks so. 

70 years means people are taking longer to get married, like age 28-35. Families then are having children later in life. 

Kinda hard to be a "virgin" until your wedding night.
Here's a tech advancement that people don't think about because it is beneficial: long life.

Til death do you part means something very different with an average lifespan of 35 years versus 70 years. Marriages of 50 years are extremely hard. 

Long life has uprooted family traditions.
I can riff on hundreds of tech advancements that have uprooted culture. You know why? Because I did my homework inventing Irreni World Scale. You can't solve a problem if you don't understand it. Blaming our current demise on social media is a sore lack of education.
There was a famous public research pieced bandied about for months in the 90s about how one piece of tech was pivotal in undermining family: the microwave. 

Before the microwave families were still getting together nightly for dinner and parents were disseminating culture to their kids.
If one reads modern anthropology from the advent of the automobile to today then it is clear that as evolutionary animals we can't handle the rate of change in culture tech has brought.

Add into that mix the fact that  tech has created new problems that makes is dependent on tech to manage them....
"The rate of technological advancement today is such that we have guided missiles and misguided men." -MLK

The 40s called, it wants its bomb back.

Scifi exists as a genre because after the atom bomb was invented Joseph Campbell  lobbied to think about the morality of tech before it arrives.
Bluesky isn't an echo chamber. You just have to follow the terms of service. 

So we are MAGA free.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-12
----------------------------------------

I remember when Dems left Texas for AZ so the legislature could not form quorum. As the song goes, their must be 50 ways to leave your enemy. Dems aren't doing any. Losers.
For every good article Wired provides the run ten ads for Amazon. Going to unsub.
Bowling somehow just evaporated in the 90s.
Warlords. Warlords are typically the response to authoritarian regimes. Guess which country arms them and props them up?  It's only a matter of time before people here turn to warlords for protection. Karma baby.
States need to declare this gov illegitimate for not upholding the Constitition and form a new one that does.
If we learn anything from this era it should be that there needs to be more than impeachment and removal from office by political parties to hold the Presindent accountable. Specifically being arrested and thrown in jail for breaking the law.

Brutal. I guess you are stuck until the next update.
so I uninstalled and installed, set permissions and now it works
----------------------------------------
2025-07-11
----------------------------------------


Ann Richards was funny and her dragging of GW was Chef's kiss belly roll stuff.
They are on a trajectory to bring back slavery.

Being anti-DEI is being anti-Amercan.
I answer the phone with three hellos. This is a Three Stooges quote. They actually sing low note to high note. When I'm feeling whimsy I sing my hello.
One of the things that has mystified me since I was a child is religion teaches violence begets violence. Policing is violence. Science about violence has no such  general conclusion. Policing has no efficacy. Poverty is the strongest correlation to crime and violence. End poverty, end policing.
Politics is art. That's what I'm posting here. Creative society. 

Breathe it. 

Here. 

Irreni.social
Also F Capitalism and its hpyer-focus on short-term gains. You'll never plan longer than the next quarter today. To mitigate the evils of religion and capitalism we need mesh society. Join an MGO today.

Irreni.social
F religion and how it stunted our mental growth. Managing climate will be a centuries long project. China just spent 50 years to complete a tree planting project to manage a desert. Religion end times thinking prohibits long term centuries planning in Western culures.
This is why you need to join an MGO today! 

Irreni.social
Our prison system is a white on black violence system. Nixon said in the 70s since they couldn't go after blacks directly then they'd go indirectly with the war on drugs. Biden doubled down with his crime bill. F Biden & his being whitewashed.
No denial. Know your enemy. All of DC.

Love that dress. Now I want an early 20th Century hat to go with it.
Delcare this Trump gov invalid for gross violations of the Constitution. Do this with a State sponsored Constitutional Convention.   Then form a new gov. Prohibit both parties and any elected fed legislator from it.
So in order to save an image I like the post, open buesky in a web browser, find the post under profile likes,  and save the image .
@bsky.app
I guess the save image error is from the last update.
Yes, android, Samsung
I tried to save got some weird file format error. Clean version.


As the Trump admin expands unlawful power the need to invalidate the Federal gov grows. 

States need to declare the Federal gov as rogue. They need to call a Constitutional Congress to form a new federal gov. 

And forbid any currently elected or appointed gov official from serving in the new gov.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-10
----------------------------------------


Part of me thinks people are only impressed with AI because Google search is so bad. Google is spending millions on AI answers when they could have just given us untainted answers devoid of advertising. Seems weird.





Our societies insanity can be measured by 20 years ago Microsoft released a chatbot that was quickly taken down when users trained it to spew anti-semetic Nazi vitriol. Now such a chatbot serves millions of people who don't care enough to leave.
Climate denialism = Christianity. Project 2025 defunds NOAA precisely so Christians can claim that the puny  gods wrath was punishing sin and science can't deny it outright.

Money, follow the money. This is the same with YouTube. Bluesky can't replace Twitter because Bluesky is not monetized. Selling out to make money on a Nazi-propagandist platform is just PTSD level cognitive dissonance. Brutal. Substack is going down the same monetized river Styx path.
I made this years ago.
love: treat people well regardless of how you feel about them. 

The love Jesus talked about was action, not emotion. About how we treat each other.

Bart Erhman details.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZO2...
I give respect to Mills as a governor overall but her lack of action on health care is pathetic. Two major providers in Maine have a staggering $500 million debt combined. My guess is that if you offer choice of these 60 to fixing the $500 million debt and health care people would chose health care.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-09
----------------------------------------

This will be the case for AI apps. Trust is worth money.
Rollins: "No amnesty, mass deportation continues, but in a strategic way, ensuring our farmers have the labor that they need."

How does that compute?  I mean, they are seriously gas lighting each other.  Workers are not showing up to work already. Does Rollins think they will just show now?
Unhappy people can't make happy society. Remember how you present yourself when talking politics matters. 

This is why I always ad art to my posts. Un regalito para ti.
Bring back personality tests and their shorthand. like INJF. We should be putting these more complex classifiers in our bios. And we need to incorporate #neurodiversity into personality classifications. Then I might finally exist. And F u Bill Maher for popularizing one size fits all laziness.
All the personality tests like Briggs-Myer came out of the 70s. They got  dismissed because, and am not making this up, personality tests are not accurate. You want to know what's far worse? male-female tests.
The information rule respects the complexity of life. The golden rule takes s*** on it. 

I then took my starting moral razor and extrapolated to an entire social system I now call Irreni World Scale, aka complex society or mesh society.

Join an MGO today!
irreni.social
So. I came up with my own starting place moral razor, the information rule.

information rule: treat people as they are, not as you are.
As a strongly #neurodivergent child it was obvious to me the golden rule is the most evil rule. One size fits all defines, "do unto others as you would have them do unto you." F u Jesus. I'm not neurotypical. Nothing is lazier than only thinking about you.
Well, I'd  go with complex over correct. Ha!
Now imagine a movement where we not only used pronouns but pairs of pronouns. Usage depended on the topic being physical or emotional domains. Conservative heads would explode. Especially Bill Maher's. F u Bill. And conservatives. Life is complicated. Lazy people are evil.
Intelligence spectrum has the ununtersting  gender classification Crap like women can't do math has long been debunked. So, I'd go with pronouns being a pair for physical and emotional. My pronouns then would be EQ she/her, PQ he/his. Now you know how better to commincate with me.
In the 1970s when I grew up the spectrum movement was far more robust than today, although smaller. Things were classified in three dimensions: intelligence, emotional, and physical. Pronouns then should be a triplet.
Complexity takes work. This is why I never had respect for Bill Maher and his politically correct agenda. Lazy people want things simple. Bill is lazy. Screw you Bill. Creating spectrum classifications is a better social model of communication.
Stereotypes have a place. But realize the more general a model, the less accurate and useful the model is. The worst model is one size fits all, or religion. The second worst is binary, or gender. We should jetison binary models. People are complex. Binary is not.
The gender-critical crowd is living in the Stone ages socially. One is much better served knowing the emotional traits than physical traits in social interactions and leaving binary class to the primitives. The religious. The lazy.
I took an assessment test in the 70s of gender traits. Emotionally I weigh heavily feminine. Sexually male. I was called a sissy my entire childhood in the 70s. Sexuall being male is the least helpful class. You'd be better off using feminine perspectives in communication.
Yes. 

However, this is oversimplified thinking. The autism community has worked hard to educate people about spectrum. Leaving out the spectrum is unhelpful. Gender is a spectrum. It is not binary. 
We all have personality traits on the male/female gender spectrum.
Musk posting using the Grok account is the future of AI. Just as Google search has sold every word to the highest bidder, so will AI sell every answer.
Universal Basic
1. Income
2. Healthcare
3. Housing
4. Food
Is Wired owned by Amazon? What's with just blatant advertising? 

No ads please.
I get this feeling we're moving into late stage Great Britain. You know the country that shipped prisoners to America and Australia.
Yeah, the playback for today is mesh society replacing corruption heavy hierarchy. Join an MGO today! 

irreni.social

----------------------------------------
2025-07-08
----------------------------------------

Anti-immigration is polling well and the Democratic base is pulling away. Win-win going hard right: pick-off Trump voters and create a new base.

The new ICE implementation will be the Democratic platform as well. It is much easier for the Democrats to turn hard right than move left.
 Democrats “looked feckless, we weren’t decisive, we weren’t listening to voters, and the voters decided that we weren’t in the right when it comes to what was happening with the border.”

Democrats are going to move hard right on immigration.
To date none of the UBI experiments have been large enough to give the financial markets any change. When they do, the capitalists will just raise prices. So we need to add:
1. UBI, income
2. UBF, food
3. UBH, healthcare
4. UBH, housing
We need a new Constitutional Congress for all States that acknowledge the current Federal government is invalid and declare  its authority null and void. A new Federal government is enacted with the current Constitution.
"Seeing too many secession fantasies here, so to repeat... If California secedes, then many other states will, too, "

States should not secede. Instead we should declared the current Federal government as invalid and seceded. Trump is completely ignoring the Constitution. That's succession.
On the other hand, the fear of being wrong paralyzes people. This is one reason why like 90% of content on social media is from 10% of the users. We all will get things wrong. And that's okay.

You can always start with I don't know or some version thereof.
Sometimes I think those of us who heavily come down on the side of I don't know should post this more often. My confidence in I don't  know is far greater than most of the speculation I'm seeing about the flooding.
Here's my take on the flooding in Texas. I don't know. I don't know if the weather was forecasted per usual. I don't  know if funding cuts were responsible. I don't know if the media is accurately reporting.
We invented the police to round up innocent slaves. Today we are rounding up innocent immigrants with millions of Americans cheering that on. 

ICE is very on brand for America.
If the 18-year-long "war on terror" is the history used as a guide, then they are just getting started. They will allocate new funds every year. They just made this over four-years as a hedge.  I predict trillions.
So I guess the new Republican social contract is you pay taxes and in return they throw their hands up saying, "we're helpless, here, have some prayers" and pocket the money.
The whole justice system is exemplified by the Epstein crimes. Justice only works if you get caught. The rich people rarely get caught. It is not a justice system. It is a capitalist system to make money imprisoning the poor. A Purge movie where cops kill thousands every year for entertainment.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-07
----------------------------------------

Join an MGO today. The transition from hierarchy to mesh is a necessary culture shift.
Irreni.social
Or, or, or, hear me out, the Trump government has seceded. The case for it having seceded is laid out in the Declaration of Independence itself.
In 1776 signing the D of I was a death risk. In 2025 joining an MGO has no risk. MGOs are designed to work within existing gov and eventually solely as mesh. Condemn the founders all you want. They risked their lives. Their is no such risk joining Irreni. Just imagination is required.
Irreni.social
No ideology means no Constituon in mesh society. No rights. The state of society is continuously measured and improved upon by experiment. Our shared responsibilities will only scale to the limit they work when compromised, not to everyone in the theory of ideology we call rights.
We must give up ideology. This is why mesh society is 100% empirical. Experiments are created. Start small and proven at ever larger scales until it fails. No experiment starts large, like say the ACA.
The pathology of an unintelligent set of compromises of opposing objectives is compounded by ideology. Ideology is consistent and ideal in its design, the opposite of compromise. Yet we never gave up ideology.
Mesh society mitigates opposing objectives of compromise on three fundamental ways.

1. Horizontal growth only, no hierarchy. Mesh nodes all have identical size: 30.
2. Projects expire every  five years, providing rewrites frequently.
3. Empirical only, no ideology.
The contradictions of a society built for freedom are inherent are required. So, we can't eliminate them as tyrants are want to promote. We must mitigate then.
Compromise is an  unintelligent system built that creates an ever growing foundation of opposing objectives that waste time and resources. It is also the necessary component of freedom.
Ultimately Jefferson understood that the  compounding of compromise opposition objectives over time would bring about a disembodied tyranny of its own. He called it the tyranny of the dead over the living. He promoted a new Constitution every 20 years to fix this. A term limit on the Constitution.
Only tyranny is logical. This was the principal argument between Paine and Burke. Democracy is pathological, undermining itself at every turn of compromise. Paine argued intelligence and logic is a refined synthesis, not the product of a single mind.
Here's the thing about compromise: it is an unintelligent design. What makes it work ensures it fails. What makes it work is humans invest effort to make it work because they understand and want compromise for freedom. What makes it fail is the compromise is a half-measure, a partial design.
The office of the Presidency then was not some well thought out, clever, intelligent design. The Presidency, like so much of the Constitution, was a compromise between King and no King.
The Hamiltonian wing of the Revolution wanted a King. The Jeffersonian wing had no King in their new government design. No King was a hill Jefferson was willing to die on. The fight was bitter and brutal. Jefferson was right and called out a King with a check of Congress would just revert to King.
The word politics comes from the Greek stem "poli", meaning head. As in head of State. As in hierarchy. Another lesson I learned studying the Revolution is that hierarchy is antithetical to freedom. It is the will of the one or the few over the many.
We need to learn to compromise and to disallow public amplification of hatred. Or it is game over for freedom.

So, it is of no surprise that perfection laced with copious amounts of hatred is what oligarchs are pushing onto us.

Freedom = compromise is one lesson I learned studying the Revolution.
Oligarchs want tyranny and oppression. Freedom needs willing compromise as a social lubricant. Perfection favors the oligarch. Hatred is oppression full stop. So hatred needs to be disallowed in the public arena in a free society. Tyrannical societies are hatred fueled.
The MAGA perfection song is hate based racism, misogyny, and liberal hatred. The left is not hate based. However, any  perfection tune will have the same result: the oligarchs win.
Corruption is why the US is 100% going to fail. Corruption and the oligarchs are 100% to blame. The tune that they play on their fascist banjos is perfection, not compromise. The left unwittingly is playing in the orchestra by demanding perfection, including reaching  back in time.
MAGA and the left are the same. Neither wants to compromise. That means neither wants freedom. The enemy of my enemy are all my neighbors in Democracy and a free society.
It is not rule, oppression, of law that makes freedom work. It is compromise of law that allows people to disagree and live together. This is why T and the Republicans will fail. They want oppression of law, not compromise of law.
Freedom means a country with diametrically opposed view points existing under the same system or it doesn't mean anything. People who call each other evil willing to abide by the law is freedom. The compromise that is oil that reduces friction is the law. It is not rule of law.
I studied the American Revolution history as background research for Irreni. For mesh society. No one ever gets 100% of what they want. It is easily argued that freedom rests on a foundation of compromise. Think about it.
The left is a bunch of petulant, five-year olds when it comes to politics. The left will never be more than a gnat on the ass of politics until it learns to compromise. Sadly, the Dems calling giving in with no trade a "compromise" doesn't help.
The D of I wasn't anonymous. It was only signed by John Hancock. They all put their names to it. That's compromise. Willing to put your back into something you didn't write. The D of I was approved unanimously by compromise. Jefferson freed the slaves in the draft version. Compromise took it out.
Thomas Paine promoting atheism in his writing took balls of steel. Real courage. He also called Kings morally depraved at a time that meant prison or worse. Everyone who signed the Dec. of Ind. was signing a death warrant.
In 1789 the Tories were actively working to overthrow th gov. People didn't have 249 years of working Democracy to rely on: it didn't exist yet. What came together? Compromise. Including the most evil three-fifths compromise.
Politics in 1789 was far more brutal and nasty than today. Jefferson and Hamilton hated each other publicly. Jefferson owned a newspaper and hired a polygot Frechman to publish his hit pieces in multiple languages. Hamilton died in a dual.
Democratic party, noun: 1. A party calls capitulation and rolling over bi-partisan. 

If compromise is taking place the trade-offs, the wins, need to be made clear to your side because because your enemies will most certainly trumpet your losses.
Compromise. It's a concept we've regressed on socially in spite of all the progress made in moderning sensibilities as with gay marriage. My way or the highway gets you nowhere. Even worse is calling giving in compromise.
Perfection, noun: 1. The reason why the left is a circular firing squad.

The comment section of this is why the left will never get out of its own way. Grow up or get ran over. The slave owners had one sensibility that we've regressed on: humans are imperfect.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-06
----------------------------------------

If we declared the existing Federal government as invalid and seceded the world would join us, not them. That's 8 billion against 70 million.
Trump is openly ignoring judicial decisions and law. The only reason he's getting away with it is because Republicans let him. It is time to pin that round their necks. Declare the existing US government as invalid and seceded.
Better than seceding from the Union is forming a new Union because the current Federal government seceded when it stopped following the US Constitution.
We really need a 21st Century Congress to form a 2nd Federal government for Blue states who then leave the current Federal government. There is nothing in the Constitution that says we are limited to one Federal government.
The Feds are whelching on $7 billion dollars of previously promised school funds. Because Trump doesn't pay his debts. States are withholding funds and putting liens against Federal property as counter measures.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=RQ3F...
Jeff Sessions, Trump's first term AG, said that once immigrants learned people and children were being held in cages then they wouldn't come here.

Idiotic on two counts:
1. People immigrating here get US News.
2. Life in Central America is worse.

You can't get ahead by staying even. You can't fix a problem with corruption by asking the corrupted.
ICE is an occupation.
No denial. Know your enemy. All of DC.

We have to make new society. We can no longer rely on Democracy. Join mesh society today. Join an  MGO.

irreni.social
The one thing the left has in common with MAGA is we are all being played. DC represents the oligarchs and only the oligarchs. DC is weaponizing our base nature against us. DC is weaponizing populism against us.
The Dems will rival and even surpass the self-righteousness of the Rs in order to control the direction of anti-oligarch sentiment: to ground it as a lighting rod grounds lightning. 

The Dems have it easy. They just have to do nothing all the while feigning the opposite. Lucy pulling the football.
The Dems will equal partners in this. The will continue to appeal to the anti-oligarchs. They do this as a cynical outlet, to let steam out of the anti-oligrach populism. The Dems will perfect gnashing and snarling. The Dems will rival and even surpass the self-righteousness of the Rs.
We are about to spend a half-trillion dollars over the next four years to solidify direct democracy populism with authoritarianism. This is not about immigration. It is about erasing the Republic to use populism to ensure oligarch will. Expect more.
We are direct democracy mixed with authoritarianism now. We need a new word for that cocktail. Playing on peoples fear to rule makes you a reprobate, a despicable person. Playing on our worse demons, our evolutionary deficiencies is maniacal. Evil. Republican.
The kicker is that the $148-187 billion we are about to spend is for just one year. They will renew that every year. We are going to easily spend a half-trillion dollars on immigration. Far more than the 100,000/month immigrants would have cost. Way more.
Spending $148 billion on ICE is spending $148 billion on immigration. The only question is the value proposition for that $148 billion. We could a new work force for jobs we natives don't want to do. Or we can have an occupying force disappearing people without due process. And here's the kicker....
The irony of spending $148 billion on ICE is that we could have taken that $148 billion to make room for 100,000 immigrants a month. Easily. Rs are whining about immigrants taking "welfare" resources away from Americans. Guess what will be cut for ICE funding?
You don't just up and leave your community, your family. You don't just send your kids off alone on a thousand mile walk to the US. CA people are desperate. They are not just looking for a "better life". They are looking for life itself.
Why do we have 100,000 refugees at our border? If you answered, "The US", then you get the "ding! ding! ding! ding!" Unlike Cuba, Raygun decided to overthrow all the communist govs in Central America. This destabilized these govs and they never recovered. We are responsible.
We took in over a million Vietnamese refugees after the Vietnam war against public opinion because it was the responsible thing to do. Stupid Rs never ask why we have 100,000 refugees a month at our border.
After 9/11 the American public polled 42% believed Saddam Hussein was responsible. The public is often wrong. However, the cynical Rs ran with it and ginned that number up to 60%. For shame. For shame. You know what's worse than direct democracy? A republic that implements direct democracy.
The Dems will not roll-back Ts new occupation force. Because anti-immigration is popular. So we as a country are giving up our responsibilities defined by representative government and instead define our country as direct democracy populism.
Humans are really suffering from a lack of education about human nature. Fear of the stranger is well tread ground in anthropology. The reason I bring this up is Dems are going to roll with it. It is easier to be anti-immigration than work with the left.
Honestly I was expecting a greater than 58% for mass deportation. The right has been fear-mongering anti-immigration since Raygun and his "amnesty". The right has Fox News and conservative media spewing hatred for immigrants. Seems Americans are a little more resilient then I give them credit for.
The US opening its doors to the Vietnamese was always unpopular. Always. The point of representative Democracy is to do the responsible thing where Direct Democracy does the popular thing. Anti-immigration is always popular. Because we are human. Jesus talked about being anti-immigration.
"From 1975, the United States opened its doors to over a million Vietnamese people. Although the largest number now live in California, these people have made their way to every state and almost every major US city."

vietnamesemuseum.org/our-roots/ou...
Anti-immigration/Xenophobia  is human nature. Rs are bragging that mass deportation is polling with 58% support. Guess what, the American public has always polled at over 50% anti-immigration. Because humans fear the unknown, the stranger. You don't get cookies for playing on peoples natural fears.
The right has been blaming liberals since the 70s for public education and journalism. My question is what stopped conservatives from becoming journalists and teachers? 

They blame liberals for everything that is wrong as if they were out the country when it happened. No self-awareness.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-05
----------------------------------------

Ladies and gentlemen I present to you the sum total of the Democratic platform: aphorisms.
We are all going to be joining the MAGA crowd in losing ability to correctly discern reality. The US Gov is going to be spreading lies and disinformation like a dog marking a neighborhood. Reality is going to be increasing hard to fact check. So don't feel bad when you get taken in.
Hanlon's razor applies: Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity (that results in incompetence).

The reminder is unaffected though,  the Trump admin info is unreliable.
Well met. Well written. AI wars are coming and speculative fiction has suggested that given personal AI defense is expensive then fortresses will be needed. I think AI routers and other endeavors will help wall off not just AI attacks, but information warfare in general with a good use of proxies.
ICE can go into public places but not private places without permission. During Prohibition counter-culture created bootlegging and Speakeasy's. Idiots lack imagination. It won't take much to circumvent them. Time to start building tunnels again. Bonus! Tunnels make for great TV plots.
ICE Honeypot.
This country cannot sustain itself when one party requires propaganda that voters of the opposition party are traitors and unpatriotic in order to sustain the party.
#fourthofjuly
I just use Emacs. I was wondering who would be doing citations about software, then checked your profile. Good stuff. Any thoughts about the friction of markdown stored in Github being subject to PR gates in coding environments discouraging documentation?
Has Wall Street been  by this UBI? The issue here is one of scale.
What's the over/under on Dems keeping ICE after they get back in power? I'm thinking near 100% chance they will. Cause, you know, gotta attract those red voters. Dems would rather shift hard right than a smidgen left.
Thanks, some Canuck posted it was.
It may seem scary to think about. But the design to work within nations and not against eliminates most risk. We just need to do it. 
Irreni.social
Two or more mesh nodes combine using projects. These projects function within nations. Over time enough mesh will replace local gov. Then Srate. The Nation. This is how mesh dissolves nation.
Mesh nodes are required to have one year's supply of food, water and survival necessities at all times. Mesh nodes are survival nodes. This gives them their power.
Irreni World Scale works at a fine granular level, there are no nations. Mesh nodes are fixed size 30 people designed to fully function inside nations. Combine them anywhere in the world to bring about the mesh. The internet is required.
Mesh society doesn't revolutionize, it dissolves. We need to dissolve our failed gov. A revolution is irresposible in a globally interconnected, interdependent world.
The not so fantastic news is that culture changes very slowly. Mesh society will take hundreds of years to implement fully. Instant gratification is not possible. However, a long journey starts the same as a short one, a first step.
The fantastic news is the solution is ready to go. Mesh society is fully designed and ready to implement. It just needs our courage and conviction.
We need to really admit to ourselves the gravity and seriousness of just how broken the US gov is. 

Mesh society addresses the fundamental problem of Democracy: corruption. Corruption has always been with us. Now it is out of control.
Evil and incompetence is a nigh impossible political downward spiral to fix. 

All of DC is your enemy. They will not admit the truth while cashing out is still on the table.

No denial. Know your enemy.
No one in DC has the slightest clue how to restore confidence and trust. Especially because they themselves are so corrupt. We are crashing out, they are cashing out.
We are in a Frankenstein situation. The creation has turned on its neocon creators. Now it is just a horror show nobody controls. Franky can't be put back into his bottle. They've lost control.
This is not some grand strategy of the right. They don't think of themselves as incompetent. But it is a negative feedback loop easily exploited by the oligarchs. What better puppet than the incompetent?
Having only terrible people as choices to vote for is a runaway train. It is not just the lesser of two evils, but the lesser of two incompetent people. This will continue to decrease voter turnout. This will increase R relative turnout.
We've been suffering for a very long time from a lack of quality elections. No sane person would put up with all the negative press. Look at what Mamdavi is getting heaped on him. It is only going to get worse.
It is much easier to destroy than to build. Recovery from T this time will take a very long time. Even more significant is who is going to want to clean up the mess?
So is ICE going to be bad? Yes. But the destruction of the competency of the gov will most likely be much worse. The resulting chaos unpredictable. This is not just facism, but incompetent facism.
The infighting within the T admin will bog them down in petty jealousies and turf wars. I guarantee you they don't like each other. T will encourage all this to keep them loyal to him. It will be FUBAR. The result will be to drive all sane and competent people away.
I refer you to the history of Stalin. Untrustworthy people are super paranoid. How can they not be. Stalin wouldn't let scientists communicate. It got so bad scientists had to reinvent what they found out other scientists had done.
Greed attracts greed. The T admin will get little value for the 100 billion they are about to spend on ICE. They will tragically hurt and kill people. But they will definitely be incompetent about it as well as get ripped off by contractors. The whole thing will be one big disaster.
Incompetent people can't do competent things. Untrustworthy people don't attract trustworthy people. Crooks get ripped off by crooks. The T admin  will get ripped off building and implementing ICE. ICE will only recruit the incompetent.
Before the ACA people used the emergency room for primary care due to no insurance. Expext longer waits in the emergency room.
Well birds! @kevinhearne.bsky.social
Clinging to the past will get us all killed.
The information age has blown the doors off all the social buildings leading up to it. We need to rebuild the information age society with information age mores, norms, and real-time traditions we call memes. Irreni World Scale is an information age society.
irreni.social
Mesh society eliminates hierarchy. This eliminates the corruption inherent in hierarchy where absolute power corrupts absolutely the top. The larger the power, the larger the corruption. Mesh society only grows horizontally.
But why waste time on weak-tea solutions? Half-measures? Splitting the US into 40 distinct countries or forming an anti-Federal government is stop-gap at best. They don't address the corruption. Corruption is a function, f(x), of scale. Larger the scale, larger the corruption.
I just proposed two seemingly radical impossible ideas. But that's what is needed. You know what's more impossible? Expecting a game of musical chairs we call elections to fix corruption. Corrupted people aren't going to vote themselves less corruption money. Ever.
An anti-Federal government is not secession. It is a the responsible thing to do when the elected current government ignores the US Constitution. We can't have revolutions in a global economy age. US AID shutting down will cost 14 million global lives. Imagine the death toll of a US revolution.
An anit-Federal government would be easier than splitting into 40 countries. I would also be less effective. Blue states pay their taxes and elect only officials to the anti-Federal government. The don't hold elections for the current government. The US armed forces only has two million people.
Splitting the US into countries of around 10 million is one way to hand failure of scale. Democracies doing the best today have around 10 million people. As Democracies get larger they get overrun with corruption. 

Having 40 countries would undermine global corporations. 40 sovereign currencies.
We need to get our heads of the a** of the past. We need to upgrade to 2025. Here are two thought experiments to get you started:
1. Split the US into 40 countries with ~10 million population each.
2. Form an anti-Federal government run by blue States. 
Again, these are thought experiments.
Either we control propaganda, or it will destroy us.

People are not computers but they can still be programmed. Anti-vax is a perfect example. How do vaccines become political? Every anti-vax person was vaccinated and is living proof vaccines work. That tells us how effective propaganda is.
Either we ban mass media information war, or we will lose public commons. Conservatives live in an alternate reality cheap to mass produce. Holding on to some 18th Century free speech ideal will get us all killed. We don't need to criminalize it: just shut it down.
Canada banned Fox News. Did you know that? We need to ban X(Twitter) and any place allowing propaganda like anti-vax to be spread. We will never restore society to any semblance of common reality fabric as long as information warfare on a mass scale is allowed to exist.
Grow up. The first amendment free speech is outdated. Information is cheap to mass produce. Mass produced information is information warfare. The first amendment today is protecting propaganda on a scale not possible in 1789. We need to the adults and recognize the changing times.
What would it take to restore society?  Ban all hate media. Today that's Fox News, AM radio, The Daily Wire, and pretty much all of conservative media. Hate is not an alternate viewpoint. 

If we don't have the stomach to ban hate media then we are not serious about restoring society to sanity.
There is a reason Democracy is not just failing here, but everywhere: corruption. Corruption born of hierarchy. There is no better tomorrow until we address hierarchy. Mesh society replaces hierarchy. No excuses. We want results. No has workable solutions.  Check out solutions at:
irreni.social
Everybody wants to go backwards. MAGA wants 1953 to racism and misogyny being accepted. Blue MAGA wants to go back to the neo-liberal 90s. And the left? They want New Deal Democracy without a party, just some individuals like AOC or the mayor of NYC. Nobody is thinking about going forward.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-04
----------------------------------------

It's an occupation. 900,000 cops in the US. 375,000 prison guards currently.
Twitter is monetized. Ads and click bait ruin any efficacy. TikTok is going down the same rabbit hole. Bluesky will follow suit the minute they monetize content. I left Facebook 6 years ago. YouTube is atrocious.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-03
----------------------------------------

Evangelicals being racist and misogynist to the core. Christianity is the immoral low ground.
Occupy Wall Street to occupy Main Street in a little over a decade. ICE is an occupation force. I guess we can take a wee bit of comfort knowing the US track record for occupation since WWII is failure. Unfortunately millions will get hurt and die, trillions wasted before we remove ICE from the US.
Been waiting since Raygun, still no trickle down.
We should rename the Democratic Party the Susan Collins party. The only time the pontificate against Rs is when they know it is safe to do so and the risk is none.
Sadly, this theater is all the resistance we get from Ds. 
This is how they gin up the anti-R votes in the next election. Lucy holding the football.
From millions donated at MAGA events, millions at his inauguration, billions in Trump meme coin, to his latest watch and perfume Trump is treating his office as a way to make money. And bribes by lawsuits. Rs do nothing. We are not a Democracy any more.
This is called disappearing people.
ACAB, suicide by cop is  as easy and reliable as an Uber call. Welcome to 'Merica.
It is a genetic flaw in human nature that we so readily and easily embrace problems of tools, and conversely ignore and with great difficulty embrace problems of social groups. This evolutionary flaw may be our species undoing if we don't overcome this flaw in order to solve social group problems.
"It is not enough,” Einstein said, “that you should understand applied science... concern for man himself and his fate must always form the chief interest of all technical endeavors...never forget this in the midst of your diagrams and equations.”
"The state of technicologocal advancement today is such that we have guided missiles and misguided men." -Martin Luther King Jr

How sad it is that we spend no energy on advancing society, just tech.
Cruel and unusual  is now American.
----------------------------------------
2025-07-02
----------------------------------------

Here's something I haven't heard reporting on in awhile, H1B visas. Why come to this country?
It is surreal that tech is continuing advancing as if people have money to buy new toys, fiddling while Rome burns. Perhaps we should invest in social works? Very surreal.
I'm pretty sure ICE concentration camps constitute cruel and unusual punishment for at most a misdemeanor. But this country abandoned the Constitution long ago.
This is the effective altruism Theil and the tech bros want. Kill people indirectly.
I guess it's pretty clear T couldn't find Canada on a map and LA got the marines. Now we get to spend more money occupying ourselves. America tearing itself apart, occupying itself, why does Iran need to retalliate?
No denial. Know your enemy. 

Everyone in DC.

----------------------------------------
2025-07-01
----------------------------------------

"If there was ever a time to call your Senator, this is it. "

What BS. Like a phone call weighted against a billionaires money for tax cuts is going to amount to anything.

The Ds gaslight us every bit as much as the Rs.
Perfection is not politics. Cat herding is politics. The left's Achilles heal is they ignore and 100% discount antagonitistic priorities. The left is naive. Grow up. But your big pants on and do the best we can.
Representative democracy has gotten us blackmail pricing. Pay or die. This scam leads to the corruption  we have today. Direct democracy of prioritizing local priorities first as bottom up is not perfect either. It doesn't have to be.
The politics of basic Healthcare is straight forward: more agreement in common priorities means larger gov. funding. Feds only cover things the most people agree on. 

This has to be the messaging for cost-benefit trade off of Basic Healthcare service: direct democracy.
Antagonistic competing priorities means abortion versus no abortion service. We need to fracture healthcare priorities where there is no agreement. This means local level not State.
This country does not have a mono-culture, like say Japan. This country is a melting pot of antagonistic competing priorities. Any politics that doesn't take this into account will fail.
Nothing is more personnal than healthcare. Therefore "universal healthcare" comes off as anti-personal. Healthcare priorities need to be complex to be personal. Therefore the entire spectrum of local,  State, and Fed needs to leveraged to allow communities to distinctly trade off cost and benefit.
Hierarchy doesn't scale as more people in a hierarchy breeds more money, power, and corruption at the top. The only fix for that is mesh society. It only grows horizontally. 

Irreni.social
At the end of the day the Core party is picking sides in an Oligarch war: those who want stability versus the scammers looking for a quick buck with chaos. The best we can do in a 100% corrupt gov.
Never let self-righteousness and being direct be your only politics. We are always in propaganda war because talk is cheap. The left needs to practice propaganda.
The nice thing about calling for zero health insurance is when asked about prices just reply "let the market decide." This will confuse the capitalist.  Then just say basic is paid for by local, State, and Feds piecemeal. Create a fog of political war. Forgoe mentioning universal Healthcare day one.
We're not paying for health care, we are paying for health insurance. This is a great Core party slogan.
Everybody hates health insurance in this country. A Core party would garner millions of voters just calling for the elimination of health insurance. Don't call it universal Healthcare. Call it zero health insurance.
The 4 UBs can be paid for by what this country pays in health insurance alone. Healthcare is no longer insurable. This will incentivise what is not covered as basic healthcare  to be classified as basic.
Call it the Core party. The Cores can easily convince the Oligarchs to join them. UB is cheap compared to what we have now. The enemy is not Os, but scammers like health insurance companies that provide no value. Political strategy is UB vs. scammers.
If Ps adopt a platform foundation of the four UBs then it accomplishes two major party objectives. 
1. Clear message of party core.
2. Meat and potatoes politics first.

The left will never attract enough blue MAGA voters as fringe. A party needs core life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
Ps need to start a new party full stop. They need to communicate a clear vision: UBI, UBH UBF, UBH2. 

Universal basic:
1. Income
2. Healthcare
3. Food
4. Housing
Fighting progressives has been a theme for Ds long before T. Now Ds spend campaign money against P candidates. 

It is time for Ps to get over their denial that blue MAGA wants a coalition. They don't.
Progressive left comes off as crazy s**t to blue MAGA. The left isn't infighting. The center-right MAGA is fighting what they see as crazy on multiple fronts. Blue MAGA has zero interest in any coalition with perceived crazy.
Far and away the most powerful left is  the center-right blue MAGA. They vote D. These are the voters Ds are counting on as a lock. They are the D base. Just get rid of this crazy s**t.
The reason for all the division on the left is no common vision. The first vision division is blue MAGA that wants the status quo before T. Then Bernie vision. Then single vision like Gaza, economy, jobs, etc.
Had enough? 

Join an MGO today! 

Irreni.social
And for you young'uns, AC/DC in the 70s meant bi-sexual. Now we have Pride Month and don't have to speak in code any more.
For my taste I prefer to focus on Christians being repugnant.  If Heaven is full of Christians then Hell is my Heaven and I'd be really happy they are all in one place I'm not.  Or, as AC/DC would say, Hell ain't no bad place to be.
The is what the new atheists were about after 9/11. They moved the Overton window from Christianity and Islam being benign in public discourse to Christianity and Islam being malevolent and evil ideologies. 

The racism and misogyny of the MAGA Evangelical movement is a match made in heaven.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-30
----------------------------------------

It is easy to argue Democracy died when Raygun took office. I'm more of the argument it died in 1968. When the Mayor Daly and the Democratic party called out the police to beat the crap out of students protesting the Democratic convention.
What would the world look like with no nations? Well, allow me. Head on over to the Notes on the State of No Nations.

irreni.social/no-nation-no...
anti-pope, noun: 1. a person established as pope in opposition to one held by others to be canonically chosen.

We need an anti-pope as  anti-federal government of blue states. Come on blue states, come together, right now, over me.
The thing about these old paintings is the oft times hang in rooms with candle and tobacco smoke, turning them yellow. It helps to auto-level them and add in some blue. Set the black level a wee bit higher to bring out detail.

America, noun: 1. a place where Americans are told the government spending is being slashed to make it smaller when in fact the deficit and debt grow by trillions bloating the government, and yet Americans believe what they are told.
As we approach the 4th of July it is worth considering that the US Constitution was a product of design by committee. It was a design of compromises, not efficacy of function. 

The ramifications of that design by committee disjointedness are amplified as the Federal Government gets ever larger.
Sadly the US Constitution has no merit qualifications for any elected or appointed positions. One of its many glaring defects.
Translation: tech is being sidelined with pork spending. If tech were getting big corruption money then Mush would still be in DC.
In this country. Get yourself an international VPN in another country.
Same as it ever was. Preach against crime all the while taking mobster money.
Thiel and his ilk promote eugenics as "effective altruism". They want 7 billion people to die now so 1 billion can be happy in the future. That is their effective altruism.
Why does T need $48 Billion to build a wall when T claims to have stopped 100% of border crossings? His own dept. is saying 8k/ month versus 100k under Biden? Does the right even do logic? Oops ie, just made a logic error.
Never. Corruption cannot correct itself once it hits an inflection point of runaway cascade. Corrupt is a feeding frenzy today.
The history of trickle-down economics is that Rs successfully blame the Ds for debt and deficit that Rs create. The R base is impervious to reality.
AI is and always has been just a brand. As a brand there are no standards.
Conservative media promotes the idea that the Dems losing approval is Dem failure. MAGA just thinks what they are told to think. Thinking for yourself is what's at stake. Ds are confident thinking doesn't matter, anti-R vote is all they need.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-29
----------------------------------------


What Earth simulations are being run today? Climatology. Probably a few others. We are not serious about enacting large scale solutions today such as universal health care because we just pass laws and wish they work. 

Irreni is dead serious about improving tomorrow.
irreni.social
What does AI requiring ~100 million people mean. Real time data updates each simulation scenario run. People all over the world will need to update in real time as much current data as possible to ensure the simulation has the best output. 

So data entry.
What does it take to regard the gestalt? AI operated by ~ 100 million people. If you think that is ridiculous then you have no idea how large Earth is and what  AI simulation for 8 billion people means with variables constantly changing. This AI is required for Irreni World Scale.
irreni.social
In the early 90s I attended a seminal by the former Russian Ambassador. Joan Fedor introduced him and said, "The biggest threat to Democracy today is oversimplified solutions to complicated problems."

This manifests today in problems being addressed in isolation, no regard for the gestalt.
Have we not learned anything from student loans? At first they accomplished what they set out to do, perhaps during the 80s. 
Then, in the 90s capitalists started raising University prices to game loans. 

Any financial proposal needs to consider capitalists just raising prices in its models.
I'm all for UBI. However, it will be easily gamed by capitalists by raising prices much faster than governments ever legislate. 

In order to ensure UBI works we need:
1. Universal healthcare
2. Fixed food pricing
3. Fixed housing pricing.
There are 900,000 cops in the US and 375,000 prison guards. There are 2 million active military. We are literally a nation that occupies itself.

No denial. Know your enemy.
"Cops have a chance to really rehabilitate their image if they take on ICE and protect residents."

The reason I post ACAB is because people think stuff like this. 

Have you met cops? They literally hire the most violent, low IQ bullies and give them warrior training. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
"The lessons Democrats must learn." 

Democrats: No. Show me the money! 

Seriously, propping up sexual abuser Coumo in NYC for mayor was about one thing: corruption. Show me the money! 

The Democrats should just change their party name to: "Show Money".

No denial. Know your enemy.
A new Mesh society post, this time about Stayships! 

A stayship is a core design in support of the Irreni World Scale prime directive: Life Goes On.  Indefinitely means until the end of this Universe and if possible, stopping the end of the Universe. 
irreni.social/stayships-06...
h A P p Y  s A t U r D a Y!   New Mesh Society post! Unhappy people cannot build happy people society. Mesh society solves the unhappy people problem by eliminating nations and hierarchy where human nature is such that we tend to put unhappy people in charge.
irreni.social/no-nation-no...

Who doesn't  want the best in weather reports?

Newsom is running for President. Expect ever increasing political stunts and demagoguery until after the election.
I follow conservative news and right after Dobbs overturned Roe, some on the pro-life movement started a movement to evangelize pro-life doctrine in Blue States. You know, win hearts and minds.  The op-eds lasted about six months. It was always just about self-righteous indignation and not life.
So  the MS Magazine article says abortions have gone up since Dobbs.  Doctors have fled red states. The pro-life movement achieved nothing except cruelty and losing doctors. The birthrate will continue to decline as the rich continue to get richer and the poor can't afford.
"The Courts were never going to save us. So, who is?"

I am. Well you are, but I will show you how. Mesh society. Join today! 
irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-06-28
----------------------------------------

I loved all the hats in the Murdoch Mysteries, set in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
I lot of it, perhaps most, is manufactured by right wing media.
Crypto as a new currency is just the tech bros muscling in on establishment currency power game. The "Libertarian" aspects were just the bait for a known set of desperate fools to initiate. Those days are over.
Currency is a game. You aren't invited. Why do you play it? Because the players hold all the levers of power. The players are the top of the hierarchy and their agents. It is time to pull a Star Trek and end currency. End hierarchy. Now.
In mesh society there are only mesh nodes and projects. Projects allocate  based upon the terms of the project contracts. No currency or banking required. Mesh society is a barter or direct time for goods and services society. No currency. No banking. No capitalism. Inefficiency removed.
Howevr, Democracy is failing worldwide. Further climate change needs global orchestrated efforts. Hierarchy based systems don't cooperate, they compete. Hierarchy has to go. Mesh nodes scale to global population coordination. No competition. 
Irreni.social
One thing that people overlook when talking Democracies that work is scale. All those Nordic counties? Tens of millions. Internally smaller local Ds are functioning better. I mean one stop-gap to our US failure would be to divide into 30 separate countries.
If I thought Democracy could be saved, then I'd be putting my energy into a new P party. It can't. D is dead. D doesn't scale. This is why I invented one form of mesh society. Hierarchy corrupts to the same degree as the number of people in it.
Irreni.social
If you can't build a party then you can't build a country. What the Tea Party did was destroy. Destruction is trivial, the Republican party was ripe. What MAGA can't do now is build. Because they've only ever destroyed. A Progressive's job is 100 times more difficult.
I will say this about Ross Perot. I rejected most of his politics, but I supported his campaign because he understood he needed to build a new national party. And he started one. It failed, but so what. Don't be so afraid of failure that you don't even try.
Henry Ford said the reason most people miss out on opportunity is because it comes dressed in overalls and looks like work. The work in this case is building a national party. Since ZM is writing checks that take a party to cash, in all likelihood he's just an opportunist and a another demagogue.
But it is not just the right looking to destroy  progressive. It is like the D party is Lucy holding the football and Ps are Charlie Brown. Ds actively fund anti-P opponents. Cuomo just needs to turn R and Ds will fund him with millions. Have you all learned nothing? 

No denial. Know your enemy.
The right is all too happy to engage with the narrative that Zohran Mamdani is a singular Superman to crush. Cause they will, ad nauseum, to the extent of putting his life in danger. They will laser focus all that hate.
Zohran Mamdani is being set up by the left as some knight in shining armor coming to save us all and vice versa on the right. Stop it. We need an entire party. At best it's a step in the right direction. He's got no magic wand to make his ideas happen.
No denial. Know your enemy. 

All of DC.
Exactly. Which is why everyone should join mesh society today. No patriarchy means:
1. No Nations, cities or states.
2. No corporations or banks. 
3. No bureacracy

Join an MGO today!. Just mesh nodes (MGOs) and projects! 
irreni.social
Dare I say it? Blue by you. There, I said it.
ACAB. Police only have warrior training and their gun is their first and only response.  Not sure why anyone would call the police unless they were looking to assist the suicide.
All of the DC legislators are owned by oligarchs. Duh. Oligarchs working tirelessly to bring this country down. 

No denial. Know your enemy.

Pro life Christian.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-27
----------------------------------------

I think the terrifying thing about LLM AI is the non-deterministic behavior between training sets. 

The right answer the first time for a question "A" will train the human to assume the right answer for "A" always there after.
"replace all invalid directory characters with _"

regex: 1
AI: 0

Tried AI on regex today. No character class, no escape.

China just spent 50 years planting trees around a very large desert. Hard to imagine the US taking on a 50 year project.
It has been widely reported that the situation is far worse because the "identification" they do wear is just block letter logo "ICE". You can by "ICE" gear on Amazon.
The author of Project 2025, the Evangelical Christian Nationalist platform responsible for 250,000 children dead. 

But pro life.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-26
----------------------------------------

Just like clockwork:
"DEMS BETRAY US & SAVE TRUMP FROM IMPEACHMENT!!! | The Kyle Kulinski Show"

Dems voted overwhelming to reject impeaching Trump. Overwhelmingly. Next up: a resolution authorizing force in Iran that gets overwhelming Dem support. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
The fact that the party supported a sexual abuser over a progressive should tell you something. 1. The Ds are every bit as misogynist as Rs, and 2. The Ds are your enemy.

No denial. Know your enemy.
Irreni.social
We, the people, need to wisen up. FDR had 100% of his party support. So does Trump. No party support, no capability.
I'm always leary of politicians making promises of free things that they have no way to deliver. Doubly so when they don't have their party's support. This is because I lived through Jimmy Carter, who the D party actively worked against.
Okay then.
Not Illumina.
Pro life.
Three years after Dobbs and not a peep of about reductions in abortion or increase in birthrate. It's almost like it was manufactured outrage for 50 years.
Useless Collins caught up in the direction of Ts gasbag emanating again.
There are 1.5 million active armed forces. There are 900,000 cops. We have literally occupied ourselves as a country.
I'm mean I guess ICE is going to set the record straight and normalize what many of us have known our all lives. All police are bad, the blue line is the good ones covering for the bad ones. 

So that's something.
I'm old enough to remember back in the day when the police tried to put lipstick on themselves with community policing. 
"U.S. DoJ reported that since 1994, it provided grants to more than 13,000 agencies to further the cause of community policing."

ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!
----------------------------------------
2025-06-25
----------------------------------------

Realize 99% of felony convictions are plea deals and we still don't have money for trials. The US Constition doesn't scale to 300 million. You know what does? Irreni World Scale.
Irreni.social
No revolution, innovation. Try mesh society today.
Irreni.social
How long before Rs start gaslighting us with ticking bomb scenarios again? Water boarding? Ticking bomb. Aluminum tubes? Ticking bomb. Patriot Act? Ticking bomb. Ticking bomb is the wildly successful goto for giving up freedom for safety.
Liberals being placated by D talk is beyond shame on me. This has been going on for decades. This is willful. Willful cowardice to be soothed and controlled by just catharsis of talk.  Righteous anger solves nothing. Except to promote hate. Misogyny and racism. 

Know your enemy. No denial.
Did Ds introduce articles of impeachment yet? When are people going to get out of their denial that this is all  theater to placate? Ds are just actors entertaining.

Know your enemy. No denial.
T wants to use a nuke. You know, Macho Man has to macho. He wanted to in his first term. If Congress had any shred of resposibilty left they'd pass a law requiring Congressional approval .

But they won't.
Iran sponsors terrorism and has for decades. What does ceasefire even mean to a terrorist state that funds proxies?
Reminds of advice columnist Ann Landers, "Television is proof positive that people would rather look at anything else than each other."
In 2002 the Bush Admi had internal polling that 46% of the US believed Saddam Hussein was responsible for 9/11. They didn't create that, just ginned it up to 60% by 2003. When the Admin got called on in they pointed to the 46%. As if Americans believing something false was okay to use against them.
You know what they say: there are lies, damn lies, and polling.
My opinion exactly. Hierarchy doesn't scale, the corruption gets worse as the hierarchy gets more rich and powerful.

The time is now for mesh society.
irreni.social
Did the Ds introduce articles of impeachment today? Nope, just treating liberals like Rs treat MAGA: screeching at them cathartic crap.

The one-and-done isn't going to hold. The Rs will pass a resolution authorizing force and the Ds will approve it too.

Know your enemy, everyone in DC. No denial.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-24
----------------------------------------

A couple of years ago I started pursuing direct vendor sites, moving away from Amazon. Today I realized I wasn't getting the value any more from Prime shipping. I canceled Prime. 

Good stuff.
Know your enemy. No denial. Everyone in DC.
Employers don't do themselves any favor by disrespecting employees with gaslighting them. Just say, "The RIF is needed for possible acquisitions." Why the BS. We are adults.
So, Illumina told us employees that the 300 person RIF was to reduce expenses by 100 million this year. Now they buy Somalogic with 250 employees and 100s of million in cost. My question is, why the BS about the RIF?
In 2008, knowing the Iraq war expense was already in the trillions of dollars, Obama said Medicare for all would cost trillions and too expensive. We then spent an additional 4 trillion on war. 

Know your enemy.
When I was naive in my 20s I actively worked to oust a couple of ahole bosses. Their replacements were worse. We tried regime change already in Iran. How stupid do you have to be to gamble like this?


Happy Monday! Isn't blowing up radioactive material called a dirty bomb? Didn't we just nuke Iran?

Asking for a few hundred screen writers. I'm sure I've seen that plot weekly. /shrug
Warlords are coming. Paying insurance is coming. 

Gangs are a business.

----------------------------------------
2025-06-23
----------------------------------------

We need universal healthcare, housing, food, and income.
Thanks. It always frustrates me on social media that gotchas are what people want to comment on. Why? I never gotha anyone.
So, give how many decades DC has been beating this dead horse, how long before they claim Iran is close to having nukes, uhhhh-gain
yes, but the threat was enough for folks like Limbaugh to avoid what he eventually ended up doing.
You could have your license revoked. 
It wasn't automatic.

We need the equivalent Turing test for AI. AI charges lots of money and the easy of copying responses will make scams widespread.
"How do we know this was successful this bombing of Iran! This incompetent administration lies so much and trust and believe they are spinning the narrative on this!  This may be unconstitutional but who is going to hold him accountable no one! This is insane! These people are running with a cult!"
And, and, and, here me out. Even Hitler was smart enough not to wantonly alienate his own people. MAGA doesn't exist if they are not drinking liberal tears.
And your still playing gotcha rather than addressing the main point with main examples. I have a strict no trolling policy.
If all of us had to have a 3rd Class FCC license to prevent lying then  Twitter and all public-speaking  forums only have regulated speakers. Our world would be a much saner place.
Imagine if Congress had decided to extend 3rd Class FCC licenses to all public and private forms. No Limbaugh, no Fox News. This exposes deregulation was never about conservative ideas. It was about lying and speaking propaganda.
I had a 3rd Class FCC license in the 70s. Required to talk on the air. Lie and it could be pulled. This why that gasbag Limbaugh started after these licenses were no longer required in the late 80s.
Gambling on this strike not starting a war is irresponsible in my opinion and I don't think I'm alone in this.
Universal Healthcare and UBI are needed. But so are universal housing and food. Rents are well beyond sky rocketing increases.  My take is that universal Healthcare, housing, food and income are all the same and required. Leave one of them out and the capitalists will pounce.
The fundamental problem with UBI is capitalists will game it much faster than Congress can keep UBI  relevant by simply raising prices. What is simultaneously needed is absolute price control on housing, food and healthcare. All the UBI studies have been done on scales that don't impact Wallstreet.
We need horizontal scale of success that avoids hierarchy vertical corruption. Once you come to this conclusion then the design of mesh society begins. Good News! Such a design already exists, Irreni World Scale.
Irreni.social
If one keeps researching why D failed then the light at the end of that tunnel is hierarchy doesn't scale. This is what, "Absolute power corrupts absolutely." resolves to. The financial success of the US after WWII would cause this failure.
The people in Congress being unable to understand the content of the laws needed is ultimately an outdated Constitition and not Congress being elected as idiots. This is not a discussion Congress will ever raise itself because the are 100% corrupt and in it just for easy money.
How has Congress passed sophisticated laws like the ACA in modern times? Answer: lobbyists write the bills and Congress doesn't read them. One journalist reported that 90% of all laws were written by lobbyists. Michael More did a documentary on no one in Congress reading even the short Patriot Act
Pro tip on using short form commincation: things are left out. Exposing those things as gotchas is just trolling. Stick to the point. Deregulation is shirking responsibility. Of course there are exceptions.
I don't debate online. Not my thing. FCC 3rd class licenses were also part of that. Other things as well. It is more than what you posted.
The US Constitution is outdated. Reps have no requirements of ability. This is literally killing us. They don't understand vaccines or AI. How can they possibly regulate them responsibly when they are idiots? Deregulation is brain dead work. Shirking responsibilty is not governing.
The US gov was constituted to take on resposibilties individual  States cannot do alone, like interstate commerce. New responsibilities like AI crop up every day. They require complicated solutions because they are complicated problems.
First principle is the a problem previously addressed being ignored by simple deregulation is irresponsible.
For some reason the notion that outdated laws being outdated triggered some neurotypicals to insult me that I'm too simple. The point is that outdated laws need to be replaced and removing the overly simple laws is irresponsible and anti-Democratic.
If we don't form US 2.0 then millions of US citizens are going to die just from lack of vaccination alone. But US 2.0 will suffer the same demise as US 1.0,  but can serve as a stop gap for things like mail and vaccines.
Complicated problems require complicated solutions. Removing overly simple solutions is irresponsible to the extreme. One more personal attack I will block you.
Liberal or Blue States don't need to secede. They need to come together with a second federal government. Liberal States are the only States willing to accept complicated problems require complicated solutions. Red States are stuck on the Bible. We US 2.0.
This means States need to step up or die. This means forming a 2nd federal government, an anti-Pope if you will. For the same reason an anti-Pope was needed: incompetence.
We are regressing in nationwide services that existed since the beginning, such as with mail. That's how failed our D is. We will regress on disaster relief and flu shots. Our gov is no longer legally able to handle complicated problems larger than the States.
However, when it comes to telecommunications, trade, banking, and most areas of law that cross State lines the gov has failed since the 70s. D has failed. We don't live in D any more. We live in some legal zombie state of D without brains looking eat some to get them.
Democracy is about government taking responsibility for the large problems like warfare that individual States can't do. We have done this with the CDC, flu shots, disaster relief, and a few other areas.
Modern times means more complications, especially with more needs of a growing population. The most irresponsible thing to do is just remove the overly simple, outdated regulations without any replacement at all. Since the 80s this has been all we've done.
Modern times was the excuse to deregulate declaring war, news as the Fairness Doctrine, Glass Steegle, Telecommunications Act, Patriot Act, ad nauseum. Reason and logic dictate that more complicated times requires more complicated regulation to meet the new demands.
The War Powers Act being unconstutional does not mean it is without merit. From the 70s to today Congress has ignored the C for the same hackneyed reason: modern times. I'll save you the trouble of researching why they didn't pass an amendment to update declaring war.
Many people in the coming days are just now going to learn about the War Powers Act of the 70s. They are going to scratch their head asking how is it possible to put a 60 day time limit on force that initiates war being constitional? It isn't. The US Constition  has been dead for a very long time.
11. The Patriot Act 
12. War profiteering of 2nd Gulf War.
13. 2008 financial crisis  from 1999 deregulation of Glass Steegle. 
14. The real estate bubble of 2006.
15. Gerrymandering down to the the individual voter. 

I can easily name hundreds more. But sure, D died on Jan 20th.
5. Initial Gulf War in 1990s, no threat to us.
6. NAFTA killing Unions.
7. 1999 Telecommications Act that allows monopolies in comms.
8. 1999 deregulation of Glass Steegle
9. Dot Com bubble bust.
10. Iraq war on an idea "terrorism" with continuing resolution used in eight different countries.
People  just now claiming D is dead have ignored:
1. Iranian hostage policy by unelected Raygun.
2. Fairness Doctrine gone.
3. Banking deregulation
4. S&L bubble, late 80
5. Iran-Contra overturned C.A. leading  to today's massive immigration numbers
1980. Iran-Contra was unconstitional. Raygun wasn't removed from office. Arguably before that the War Powers Act gave away war declaring that is unconstitutional.
This is describing the elimination of hierarchy, nations, corporations and such. This is describing mesh society with mesh nodes of fixed size 30 people.
Irreni.social
Orwellian, noun: 1. dropping the largest bombs short of nukes and calling that PEACE.
I feel like we are back to the deck of cards in 2003. The Bush regime published a most wanted list of 52. 18 years of war and Afghanistan is still Taliban. But hey, regime change by assassination will work in Iran, right?
There are no nations, staes or local governments in mesh society, just mesh nodes of fixed size 30 people. No corporations or capitalism, just projects voted on by MGOs. 
Irreni.social
Irreni is a project that will take hundreds of years to complete. Climate control is a continuous project of global cooperation. Only mesh society scales to global scale. Hierarchy has too many petty jealousies as was just bombed. Join an MGO, today!
Irreni.social
Maybe Pakistan didn't have a $500 million plane to donate?
I'd bet a bezillion dollars this is all bluster and they won't do it. In fact, Congress I'd bet Congress will  authorize use of force and enough Democrats will join in for that to pass.
One thing is for certain regarding Iran: Trump and the Trump Administrations incompetency is not in question. They will mess this up
Had enough? John McCain sang, "Bomb, bomb, bomb,   bomb bomb, bomb Iran" many years ago. I'm surprised he didn't nuke 'um. There's still time.

This is only going to get worse. Not better.

Take fate into your own hands, take control and join an MGO, today! 
irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-06-22
----------------------------------------

The rich getting richer in this country is a runaway cascade, a growing negative feedback loop that history shows us the rich cannot willingly change, but only hasten.
Also, the rich getting richer in this country is the actual problem. Rich people tend to be old.

Eat the rich.
The left isn't looking for answers. The left is looking its own version of MAGA: some fictional return to FDR legislation capability. A New Deal. 

Not going to happen in a 100% corrupt gov. 

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
"It's not ageism to push back against gerontocracy."

I prefer to call it incumbency. One indicator that Democracy died decades ago has been the 90% incumbency rate and 10% approval rating.
T is claiming 0 people are crossing the border illegally. I asked Google, they state US gov says 8k/mo. Read the claim. At ports of entry. Do you know how long the border is? And I definitely think these T admin numbers are false.
I think this is what's frustrating about philosophy. Hierarchy doesn't scale is what this says. In a lot of words. Hierarchy gets ever increasingly more corrupt at the top with more resources and people. Time to shift to mesh society.
Irreni.social
"the list of Cuomo endorsers is actually a great way to identify people who need to be driven out of the Democratic Party as soon as possible"

The Democratic party is 100% corrupt, which is why Cuomo is being endorsed.

No denial, Know your enemy, the entire Democratic establishment.
Trump wanting respect from people he personally doesn't respect and people who don't respect him is so weird. The MAGA base and Christian Fascists already think he is God. What more do you want? Why does he care about some award or Nobel prize?
Also, no one with .1% of a brain believes the Trump administration on anything.
"ICE Agents Face 500% Spike in Assaults as Anti-Enforcement Protests Boil Over"

So asking a question and walking forward is assault according to the Senator Padilla incidence. So cops are getting yelled at more. Get out of here. 

Further, 500% is only possible if the original number is < 10.
"Democracy has left the building. We CAN & MUST get it back, though."

That's never going to happen. Both parties have been overrun by corruption and oligarchs. 

What can happen is to rebuild society without hierarchy, mesh society.

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-06-21
----------------------------------------

Definitely one of those, "Haven't I met you before?", looks.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-20
----------------------------------------

The problem with this take is that a fire can be put out quickly. Terraforming, addressing climate change, will take hundreds of years and a society that can sustain planet-wide projects for hundreds of years, Irreni World Scale.

irreni.social
There is such an unsustainable disconnect between tech progress and gov regress. Anybody with a half a brain would know the priority must be gov innovation, not tech. Yet Irenni stands alone as tech-gov innovation. 

Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
Dead men tell no tales is a great lens or consciousness  to always have active when reading history and appeals to history.
You might find mesh society intriguing. 
Irreni.social
I never had aspirations to climb the corp ladder. Always a leaf node on an org chart. What's waiting in upper management is rotten character grown in power and money privilege.

Meritocracy for promotion was always a lie. It is always sycophants for fools. Fools run most companies and countries. If you want to change this join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
And Syria. And Central America,  CA. Raygun illegally overthrew CA gov, destabilized them to criminal rule. Now millions of CA citizens are streaming across our border. But sure, destabilize Iran and incur yet even more immigrants fleeing political violence.
The world is trending towards far more instability. But sure, let's keep pretending this is 2015.

A pandemic again would cripple the US due to defunding. Tech bros paid for this anti- investment environment sponsoring T.
AI = untested software. They will never give that up as long as people pay for it.

Targeting Trans people is just so, so petty. And judges ruling on science makes as much sense as juries ruling on science. Democracy needs to be replaced with something better.
Irreni.social
"Our Constitution is clear: Only Congress has the power to declare war."

The terrible, terrible design of the Constitution is that there is only one recourse for anything, impossible impeachment.

Irreni.social
Just a reminder The Bulwark is founded by William the Bloody Krystal. A more evil, vile and dispicable warmonger you will not find. Boycott the Bulwark.
Won't be here long. Conservatives are not about expressing opinions. He'll violate terms of service just like all the MAGA crowd.
"If Cuomo wins NYC, it'll be rather hard to deny that this is not a country––even in its 'liberal' centers––genuinely interested in opposing fascism, corruption, and continuation of the route to hell we're presently on."

That's why you should join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Putin told Trump to invade:
1. Canada
2. Greenland
3. Panama Canal
4. LA
5. Iran

It looks like Iran might be the one place he might no chicken out.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-19
----------------------------------------

So I'm watching "the Diplomat" series on Netflix. It is about going to war with Iran. It's unnerving. 

www.imdb.com/title/tt1749...
Religion? The best way to deal with religion is to ignore. We should pass an amendment that religion shall not be recognized in any legal fashion anywhere. 

Religion is group of people that can organize as any other group, no special privileges or sanctions.
Raygun gleefully let gay people die of AIDs. Pure evil.
Mainstream media is still not calling the Minnesota Assassin a terrorist.
18 Dems in the Senate. 

No denial. Know your enemy.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-18
----------------------------------------

Useless Collins.
OMG, I can't tell how many times media fabricated a ticking time bomb scenario to justify giving away declaring war. Rice and her "mushroom" clouds being the last one I remember
Wow, the misogyny on the right is in-your-face, red-hot-poker hot. I just read an op-ed pushing for getting rid of divorce and going back to medieval marriage. Then, at the end of the op-ed, a disclaimer, "I'm not saying it's okay to rape women or they should be sold for money." Geez us.
Trump is the biggest nuclear threat to the planet.
You know what's not a joke? Mesh society. No hierarchy.  Hierarchy doesn't scale. The larger a hierarchy gets the more corrupt it becomes because it has more resources. 

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
No denial. Know your enemy.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-17
----------------------------------------

You just gotta know if that Minnesota Assassin,  fake cop had been shot and killed then the police would have charged the shooter with assaulting a police officer. Guarantee it.
Christian Taliban terrorist.
Democracy and all bureaucracy is hierarchy, a layered cake of management. Mesh society has only horizontal nodes, no bureaucracy. Governing is via projects and project contracts.
So the toddler in chief got his fifis hurt about his birthday flop and is ordering ICE to double down in Democratic cities.How? DHS has already spent their budget.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-16
----------------------------------------

AI wars are coming. Everyone will need an active agent, an information defense agent. House AI is your house defense agent of information. House AI, Version 1.0 is traditional software, not an LLM AI. This is because we want our defenses to be correct and without hallucinations.
Happy Sunday! A new Irreni Society, mesh society, anti-hierarchy society, post and research page just posted. 

House AI is a personal defense against information warfare. We’ve all been the target of information warfare since the inception of capitalism.

irreni.social/house-ai-ver...
Thanks for the interest. Irreni World Scale is far more complex than Democracy and short form writing is not an appropriate discussion venue. The link is to a WordPress site with pages and posts. If that is insufficient you can follow my account as I do post snippets of Irreni content here.
"No Kings" Protest Over, now what? 

Mesh society. 

Hierarchy doesn't scale. That's because hierarchy controls and absconds with resources. The larger the hierarchy the more corruption. 

Join a micro-governing organization (MGO) today! Get your mesh on!

irreni.social
That's why we all are joining mesh nodes. Hierarchy is always corrupt with resources controlled and squandered by those at the top. 

Join an MGO today! 

Irreni.social
Yeah but if you misspell despot you end up at a train station. Eating authors seems the least offensive take. /shrug
The right asserting that the Minnesota Assassin  was an appointee by Gov Tim Walz in 2019 being a gotha is two self owns.
1. Internalized abject unthinking loyalty to Trump projection.
2. Lack of self awareness about it


Terrorism, noun: 1. Death and violence enacted against civilians meant to intimidate everyone, such as political assassinations.

It was terrorism in Minnesota.
Love the spirit.
AI defense.
And it was sponsored by CoinBase. What did that even mean?
First time seeing Wyatt Russell. Totally has his dad's body language. Awesome.

www.youtube.com/shorts/_7BJf...
----------------------------------------
2025-06-15
----------------------------------------

Meh, back in 2000 out sourcing to India took off with wild abandon and the CEOs were definitely aiming to bring wages down. Never materialized. Why? Because demand for software developers is always growing faster than supply.
Love all the "No Kings" videos. More please.
"At least 3 people killed in Iranian missile attacks, IDF says"

Where to start with this. One, we gave them those missiles and we spent, what maybe $100,000 of our tax money on that? Seems we could've given them WWII bombs for three people. 

Two, who believes the IDF? I mean literally. /shrug
I don't use IDEs because I'm neurodivergent (n) and IDEs are a buffet of triggers. I'm  testing obsessed because I'm n. I need my code to work. Most CI/CD is about neurotypical convienence and not the task at hand. Build engineering is typically breaking everyday.
Testing is infinitely more important than what IDE and other convenience tools are used. It is universal that every dev has wasted days, weeks and months fighting the IDE. Yet testing is minimal and most performative.
I use pytest  for Python and there are no commonalities across the 20-30 companies I've worked at over the years as a contractor. That's because testing is not taught in schools.  Devs hate testing and refuse to educate themselves on it.
Testing is something I find universally is an after thought. IDE capabilities are not what runs in Jenkins, Github actions, etc. MS tried with msbuild but it's as overengineered as Maven.
Software tools are not like physical tools. They are a convenience, not necessity. I use Make for build because it is extremely limited. Bash as build is almost always a gordian knot.
I use Emacs. No mods, just text editor with regex. When I first stated using Emacs I used etags for about a year, in the 90s. This enables loading files clicking on funtion signatures. Didn't need it. #nuerodivergent
This is only possible in mesh society, or horizontal society. Hierarchy will always be corrupt, concentratrating resources on the "king". Join a mesh node today.
Irreni.social
Rights were always a bad idea. We have resposiblities to our children, elderly, infirm, the poor, the least capable among us. Responsibilities to each other like with healthcare.
Trump wants to use nukes. He wanted to nuke a hurricane. He plays Macho Man at events. Trump thinks dropping a nuke on Iran will make him the baddest macho man.
A military parade in an age of realisitic military games is silly. Why just watch a tank drive by when you can drive one, fire the guns, and blow s**t up? Get out of here with that parade nonsense.
mmmm, have you ever read descriptions of heaven? Especially in Revelations? Far worse place than hell. Give me hell anyday. Hell ain't no bad place to be. AC/DC
Protest over, now what? 

No Kings protest is a great way to motivate people. But to do what? Vote Ds? They are not your allies or friends. No denial. Know your enemy. 

Now what? Mesh society. I have all the solutions. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-06-14
----------------------------------------

What language did Adam speak? English? If not, what relevance is there in him naming all the animals? None.

Thoughts by a child who rejected the stupidity of Christianty at every turn.
Know your enemy. No denial. The Ds are your enemy. 

Just a reminder, I have all the solutions to failed hierarchy society. 

Irreni.social
Assaulting a Senator? What's next? Killing puppies? 

Had enough? Join an MGO today!

Not only are there no kings in mesh society, there are no hierarchies, just mesh.

Irreni.social
Cry harder.
Maybe assault on a Democratic Senator will finally motivate Democrats to grow a spine. 

HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA HA! 

I'll show myself out.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-13
----------------------------------------

Raygun illegally overthrew gov in Central America. These countries became unstable and now are overrun with warlords and criminals. This has lead to millions of people fleeing to America today. We are living Republican karama.
Those = conservatives

As a child this was my conception of conservatives: people who are cowards too afraid to meet reality on its own terms, quaking behind religion. Cowards. Now I know they are also haters. Cowardly haters now arresting children in schools.

Why are you carrying water for the Catholic Church? Pedophile priests deserve no respect.
Know your enemy. The Ds are back stabbers and the Rs are front stabbers. The Ds are not allies or friends. Know your enemy.  No denial.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-12
----------------------------------------

"His speech at Fort Bragg today should send shivers down the spines of every patriotic American."

Had enough? Take control of your future by joining mesh society and dumping hierarchy altogether. 

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social


Useless Collins, being useless again with the word "generally". Always hedging.

Not a D in DC doing anything but running their mouths. 

If it were only T then we wouldn't be here.

Know your enemy.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-11
----------------------------------------

ABC = Anything But Courage
"Jeffries: Trump should be 'ASHAMED' and has 'zero credibility' on law and order"

This is not resistance, this is complicit, "bless your heart"'ism.

The Ds are not your friends, or your allies. No denial. Know your enemy.
Conservative media is reporting 100% of LA is burning. They don't care about deporting illegals. They don't care about the people of CA. They just want to own the libs with the military. This war on blue States .
Ds are not your friends or allies. No denial. Know your enemy. 100% of DC.

----------------------------------------
2025-06-10
----------------------------------------

It is a high crime for a President to deploy the military against citizens exercising first amendment rights. 

Remove Trump Democrats. Or politically die trying.
"The biggest threat to Democracy is oversimplified solutions to complicated problems."- Joan Fedor, Fall of the wall. This doesn't pass the oversimplified smell test. I encourage this, better than anything coming out of DC.
I like where this is targeted. Religion is the enemy, though. Know your enemies. Religion needs to be overcome with all that education being proposed.
happy m o n d a y ! ! ! Just a reminder I have all the solutions. ;) Hierarchy doesn't scale. No one person or small group can rule millions, or billions. Time to replace hierarchy with mesh society. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
AI answers are untested. AI is lazy coding.
Apply this to Democracy and you get what we have in the US today. Hierarchy doesn't scale. No one at the top has the required brain capacity. Kinda the whole point of Dune. Join mesh society 
Irreni.social


Trump wouldn't send aid to LA for the wild fires. Then he opened a dam afterwards because he got butt hurt and wasted tons of California water. 

Trump doesn't care about CA, let alone LA.
The US at 900,000 police has a larger standing police force then active military of most countries in the world except five. The Trump is calling 2,000 military reserve is an silly.

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of...
The US has 1.4 million active duty military forces and 900,000 police.

We do not lack armed police.
"The problem with born again Christians is they smell even worse the second time around." -Herb Caen, SF Chronicle columnist, 1980s.
Daredevil Reborn
5/10. Gave the original series 9/10. 
1. Foggy and Karen out.
2. No humor at all.
3. New casting is uninspired. 
4. Same tortured soul crap as previously with both Fiske and Murdoch. Not compelling.
5. Delfornio is the 5 / 10.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-09
----------------------------------------

ICE arrests during Trump's second term have now passed 100,000.

300,000 a year is 1.2 million in 4 years. Nowhere near what  was declared, 8 -12 million.
Consevatives act like the rest of the world doesn't exist or is irrelevant. Most assuredly our enemies are legion and are just waiting for weakness in American society to pounce.
Karma. Let's talk karma.

The US in modern warfare arms civilians, "freedom fighters" and warlords. Like in Syria, Iraq, and Afghanistan. How long before foreign nations return the favor. Air drop RPGs and such in LA
Conservatives:
1. Automation doesn't eliminate jobs. The economy is not a zero-sum game. New jobs will be created.
2. Immigration eliminated your job, the economy is a zero-sum game, and no new jobs will be created.
Dumpster fire couldn't intimidate Greenland or the Panama canal. You really think he's going to intimidate California? lol

TACO!
Somebody didn't like being called TACO and is throwing a kiniption fit. That's our politics these days.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-08
----------------------------------------

Correct. Which is why I invented Irreni World Scale. 
Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
"As a progressive, you believe—you must believe—that conservatism is a mass delusion. " -Yarvin
This is what I mean by drivel. Lots of claims are made. Hitchen's Razor applies: claims asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence.
I read Curtis Yarvin's blog post in 2010. You can discern for yourself here. When reading "scholarly work" if the first few hundred words are drivel, one can be guaranteed the rest will be and stop reading. So this is the extent my reading Yarvin.

www.unqualified-reservations.org/2008/04/open...
happy Caturday! 
I see a couple of things making the rounds and find them worth addressing.

 1.   Tech bros are speaking outside of their expertise and are no more informed than the general public. They are not experts in other fields.
 2.   Anarchy as a solution.

irreni.social/bread-crumbs...
The problem anarchy is the same problem with all other forms of gov bandied about: pre-dates technology in design. Irreni as mesh gov requires the Internet and smartphones and uses the latest knowledge in social science. Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
They were created by the rich to protect the rich and their property. To protect and to serve was always fake.
Tech bros use effective altruism as a smokescreen for killing people today to "help" people hundreds of years from now. Like 7 billion people
AI wars are coming.
Both of my parents were chain smokers, all 17 years at home. Restaurants, bowling alleys, hotel rooms all reeked of smoke. Vaping is bad, but at least it is not poisoning kids. No EPA.
Had enough? Take control and join an MGO today! Anti-hierarchy mesh society is ready. For you! They want monarchy again. We want mesh with no hierarchy. 
Irreni.social
You know yhe Greene strategy taught at West Point is to lead the invading army in prolonged chases through civilian areas. Turned the Tory south against the Brits. ICE will turn the country against Rs. Nat. Gaurd even more so. Morons.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-07
----------------------------------------

What do Clinton, Obama, Bernie, and AOC have in common? They aren't leaders. FDR was a leader. He lead his party and country. Clinton couldn't lead his party. Same for Obama, Bernie and AOC. They are just pop culture figures, celebrities. That's not leadership.
Yarvin  is an idiot. His Cathedral manifesto is a Jordan Peterson word salad before Peterson came on the scene. All just name dropping and obtuse vocabulary.
We learned from Uvalde police are feckless cowards. That and all the police killings where they shoot people in the back
----------------------------------------
2025-06-06
----------------------------------------

So Elon leaves DC with a black eye, which he claims his son gave him, and we're suppose to believe that?
In war, AI will present a simulation advantage. Your home router is a war target. You will need AI routers to protect. AI cyberwar escalation is going to use energy like no other tomorrow. And the morons who run this country will have no solutions.
Gets on soapbox. Uh hmm. AI wars are coming. Google already has counterfeight AI detection AIs. If everyone has a billion dollars then a billion dollars is of little value. If everyone has AI then AI advantage is of little value.
Anyway, do I support AI? Not for copying and pasting code from Stack Overflow. I do for simulation where the huge energy costs can be justified as being small relative to the outcomes of what is being simulated.
The AI on the moon would inhibit instant gratification requests. Jobs could take months and years to get answers. Earth simulation is complicated. The AI will have a built in priority system based on impacts, not making profit.
Interestingly, one planet simulation AI could be implemented as a public utility, much like Multics was envisioned. Everyone could have a time share terminal. Anyone could submit simulation requests.
Expensive AI doesn't need to exist on everyone's smart phone. No, one implementation will suffice. Irenni World Scale calls for putting this AI on the moon. Lots of cheap solar energy readily available. There only needs to be one. This is not viable in capitalism.
So if one is thinking about what is the appropriate use of AI, then it is simulation where a failed project in reality could cost us dearly.
Cost is always relative. The environmental cost of say strip mining will be far more expensive then simulation. AI simulation of large scale, planet-wide projects is cost effective. Copying and pasting code text is not.
Yet Irreni World Scale calls for a massive AI far more advanced and using far more energy than available today. Why? Simulation of Earth terraforming projects. Think simulation on the holodeck of the Starship Enterprise.
AI is the ultimate case of over engineering. You will pay for millions of solutions where you only need one. I can see the capitalist attraction. It is going to cost us dearly in climate change. Thank you is not recommended use as it costs, significantly
The copyright tyranny I think is the primary reason to ban all LLM in use today. Tyranny is not something one fights in half measures. Corporate theft of IP shouldn't be tolerated. We need an LLM rating system to designate which  IP theft AIs should  be 100% banned. ChatGPT.
AI is just a tool. An overblown, energy hog, tool but just a tool. Corporations violating everyone's copyright is offensive since Cs will sue you for violating their's. This is called tyranny. AIs are copyright tyranny.
I've been copying code from Stack Overflow, MSDN, etc.  for years. Now that same code is provided by AI. It just seems a huge waste of energy for AI to copy but the code is useful.
Sci-fi has long predicted this based on the entire history of humanity. People fear, dread, and overreact to what they don't understand, ergo Thor and MAGA. AI gods have long been predicted in the literature.
If your holy book doesn't prohibit rape, your holy book is evil.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-05
----------------------------------------

Since humans don't understand large scale then large scale can't be our reality. This is why MGOs are fixed size 30 people. Well, the fixed part is for other reasons. But still, we can understand reality framed by 30 people.
The root cause of lacking common reality is that humans didn't evolve to understand large scales. We have 10 fingers. For 200,000 years tribes on the order of 100 people. We can't "reality" billions. We can't empathize with billions. We can't take on all the suffering of billions.
I use to call Mesh society, "Spaceship Politics". But it is missing the project aspect. Spaceships don't form a mesh to work on projects, MGOs do. However, when it comes to solving the common reality problem, MGOs work. Common reality with billions can't be done, but can with 30.
irreni.social
Think of MGOs as spaceships, like the Star Trek Enterprise. State of the art technology but isolated to a ship where the reality for those on the ship is the ship primarily. You'll still have holodecks and mass communication. However, the relevance of things outside the ship is low. 
irreni.social
The MGO is a survival unit, not a quality-of-life, QoL, system. QoL requires joining an MGO management system and having 3 of the 30 people work on shared projects amongst other MGOs. These projects replace nations and corporations. They provide smart phones and other goods that require scale.
Another word for common reality is grounded. Being grounded means focusing attention to your immediate surroundings. The MGO creates an environment conducive to immediate surroundings because as a survival unit thirty people can survive as a unit. No jobs or external gov requirement. 
irreni.social
When you think about it, reality is a new information age phenomena. The key is to focus attention to pre-Internet and mass communication levels. An MGO being the day-to-day focus and reality provides grounding. 
irreni.social
How does Irreni re-focus reality? MGOs. MGOs are survival, micro-governing orgs of fixed size 30 people. You join one. The focus of life is on the MGO, just 30 people. As a survival unit it has medical, dental, energy, food, and everything one needs to survive. MGO focus re-establishes reality.
Got reality? The recent video below, the 'Rebel Wisdom' channel, Sam Harris and many others have been reporting on failed common reality for years on YouTube. Yet no progress.
Irreni World Scale re-focuses attention and reclaims reality.
irreni.social
youtu.be/gLYq2c2tAZQ?...
Well, this is all you get with American politics today. If you want better then join Mesh Society. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Life is a feedback loop. The Rich and famous create self agrandizing  feedback loops. Smart kids often times have a childhood with nothing but praise and pandering and end up insufferable for it.


The problem with living in an imaginary world and not the real world is that there is no common frame of reference. It is inevitable that alliances based on fantasy eventually devolve to in-fighting over the fantasy of choice.

LLMs are going to be the easiest thing to scam.
Had enough? I have all the solutions. Mesh society is proven society. No ideology, just data collected and results proven. Your mesh node, or MGO of fixed size 30 people, can have any government it wants, as long as people are educated, housed, clothed, and have healthcare. 
irreni.social
I think we are starting to see cracks in the tech bros and the evangelical alliance. Let's hope it continues.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-04
----------------------------------------

I worked on DME+.
Geez us. The establishment cult of personality manufacturing for ease of bribing and manipulation by the rich is just in your face. Don't fall for it. Cult of personality.
This new gov is the competition to Irreni. Cruelty beyond measure. A class system never seen before. There are others, especially one about effective altruism being used to reduce world population to one billion. 
www.newyorker.com/magazine/202...
Cutting healthcare kills people. Cutting the social safety net creates more crime. Poverty is the one factor we know strongest correlates to crime. Rs will increase poverty, thus increasing crime. Rs are the worst at governing ever.
Hi! Good to see you now fly Bluesky!
Reflecting

As opposed to flecting. Flecting is the original, very first time someones thinks about what happened, as a child. After that it is all reflecting.


Orange you glad I posted this?
Pride catepillar.
Pride image from a few years ago.

Old doodle.
Talk about not reading the room. Officers don't prevent crime. The commit it. They deal drugs, run prostitution rings and literally can't be caught.
GIGO. Garbage in, garbage out. I've written expert systems. They are trained only on expert answers and don't rely on statistical generation but decision trees. Expert systems will still give wrong answers when synthesizing answers for new data. Much better though.
Oooo, my favorite color. All of them!

Worst constellation ever.
Religion, noun: 1. destroy empathy and replace it with guilt, 2. see control
Netflix has a show, "Detective Q", which is not as saucy but British show at an American pace. Entertaining.
----------------------------------------
2025-06-03
----------------------------------------

As they said when I was growing up, up with LGBTQ÷, down with religion. Religion is and always has been a cancer on society. Getting clear of it is going to be no less painful than ridding cancer. Pride is right. Cheers!
If one ever asks oneself, "why is mental health not studied or insured?", this it. Limited will invalidates not only religion, but a justice system built on free will that mirrors religion. We love throwing people in jail rather than face mental health problems.
Happy Pride! It is not just Noah's Ark that is stupid in the Bible, but the very bedrock upon which it is founded, sin. Free will doesn't exist invalidating religion at its core. What does exist is limited will. Our choices are tightly bound, and limitations  vary wildly. Invalidating religion.
Religion has the same problem with admitting any mental health compelled behavior, such as with myself being neurodivergent. We must be possessed by demons. Sure, some of that is ignorance. In the past. Now, it is desperation to insist autism didn't exist in the past.
Happy Pride! There are many reasons religions don't tolerate the LGBTQ+ people. Ideologically they destroy free will. Religions use one model for all human behavior: free will. Admit any compelled will and sin goes out the window, invalidating religion entirely. Go Pride!
----------------------------------------
2025-06-02
----------------------------------------

A very well written script. Well met! 
www.youtube.com/watch?v=o29_...
Back in the 80s I worked in selling screws and bolts. Company A would buy a CNC or die press for thousands of dollars. They'd go bankrupt. Company B would buy that equipment at 10 cents on the dollar. They were in cohoots. In the 80s.
ACAB

I think the general public is becoming more aware that cops are just gangbangers.
I especially have a problem with HTS, or high-throughput sequencing. In every other industry high-throughput is a measure of speed, not length. I realize there is a need for distinguishing between targeted and full genome but high-throughput ain't it.
NGS is meaningless these days. I propose:
1. LSTS: Limited, short-read, targeted sequencing
2. USS: Unlimited, short-read sequencing
3. ULS: Unlimited, long-read sequencing
www.thermofisher.com/us/en/home/l...
bioinformatics.stackexchange.com/questions/42...
The art.
Going to die! It felt right, a doodle tonight. Perfect art for this.
whendoneit, noun: 1. the act of looking up a character in a TV series to find out how many episodes are left until they are done.

Mesh society, Irreni World Scale, is founded on two prime directives, two sides of a coin.

1. Everyone in. 
2. Life goes on.

Everyone in means everyone is important. Irreni World Scale includes everyone. 

Life goes on means until the end of the universe and preventing that end.
irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-06-01
----------------------------------------

of course. 

When I first moved to San Jose, CA in the 80s there was one legal gambling place. Always in trouble. They finally got shut down for embezzling. Guess who showed up at their trial as character witnesses? I won't say it, Nuns, Nuns showed up because they donated to the Catholic Church.
Add "The end times are nigh" and work in "They're  eating the dogs, they're eating the cats" for a real MAGA banger.
Orange you glad I shared rhis?
States should come together and do this, new vaccines, etc. Fund the entire thing by taking  taxes from income taxes
If I block you then you know.
AI needs virus checkers. The public needs to be able to validate AIs using updated profiles. Compromised AIs should be detected by answers to questions the virus checker has in its profiles of known compromised AIs. Expensive in electrical use? Yes. Even more so due to compromised answers? Yes
Further, confidence ranking by AI of AI results should always be mandatory, no suppressing ever.
All AI results have confidence. It is hubris and business interest to mislead the consumer that the confidence is 100%. And I'm not talking about legal disclaimers consumers don't understand and have conditioned themselves to ignore. Just low, medium, and high confidence would go long way.
AI results should come with confidence rankings that are assigned a human relatable context. For example, a ranking of confidence < 10% correct in the domain of politics would be assigned the human relatable bucket of, "for entertainment purposes only."
As an engineer it is my opinion that education in math should have in included Fuzzy Logic in K-12. Why? Because all fuzzy numbers come with error bounds, or inversely confidence ranking.
Just a reminder that low confidence, say 10-20% correct, is better than random. Social science is in the low confidence business. Hokum, like with religion, is in the random business, rain dances. Scientists who reject social sciences do so due to high confidence  attitudes and biases.
It is the human condition that we all must rely on ourselves for managing other people's human nature. This brings with it unfounded  confidence, not rooted in education. Irreni is Mesh society, but I think more importantly it is best in class in education about human nature  governing.
Over simplification. In anthropology it's been observed that gays and gay marriage are  universally rejected in most cultures throughout history. Why? The ick factor. Ick is something itself too icky for people to engage with.
This picture of human experience is humanity. We desperately cling yo day-to-day living in some bubble of comfort zone coupled with denial. Being neurodivergent I have thinner comfort zone and denial layers, easier to overcome. How to help nuerotypicals?
My experience with having known lots of family and friends with drug problems, especially alcohol, is they amplify. Bullies become worse, sometimes violent.
BI had some excellent journalism. However, they were all in on crypto, maybe still are, and I can't support scans.
Hitchens Razer applies. Ideology is simply the notion that if an idea fails, you are the problem, not the idea. Irreni means innovation replaces revolution, engineering not idealogy. Ideas can be improved.
Well, in the short run. In the long run mesh society provides much more. Join an MGO today!
Incumbency. The nail that sticks up gets hammered down.
Useless Collins. I'm sure everybody in DC is quaking in their boots over this. Next up, Collins is 'greatly opposed' to "Make" in "Make America Great Again" because slave owners make slaves do things. She prefers, "Suggest America Great Again" or SAGA.
You all are ruining taco Tuesday for me. boo hoo.
Join an MGO! Much better.

irreni.social
Conservatism isn't an ideology. It's a mob. And in the case of George Will, a mob with a bow tie.
Well, cough cough, starter packs were an easy way to follow tons of people which, you know, dilutes the chances of any on post showing up in a feed. Most of my followers are following 20k plus.  Are they really followers?
This is some serious AI slop right here. :) ChatGPT getting based.



1 billion. The tech bros want to billions of people to die until only 1 billion survive. Like they could control that.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-31
----------------------------------------

This pipe dream has been around for at least as long as Bernie has been in the Senate espousing it. 

Democracy is dead. Mesh networks are the future. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Just a reminder, the documented tech bro Corporatocracy wants to reduce world population to one billion. They will achieve that through dismantling the healthcare system that has made long lives possible, not by direct killing.
ChatGPT is still just logic and memory. It has no other intelligence components, and certainly not emotions. If ChatGPT won't tell someone to unalive themselves it is only because some human interfered, emotion.
Humans are natural. By use of the word "artificial" in front of "intelligence" the brand is saying AI cannot be human intelligence. The intelligence component I found most useful in computing is memory. LLM is one big memory. And logic algorithms have always been able to go beyond human capability.
The problem with AI is that the AI is a brand.
1. artificial, noun: 1. not found in nature. 
2. intelligence, noun: 1. reasoning that depends on emotion.

Computers don't reason because they don't have emotions. Computers are logical but logic is only one component of reason.







Pho is the real-man's hot pot. Hot pot has no noodles mon. Chinese have weird priorities. What am I talking about? Oh, sorry, Barry Weiss got to close to my brain workings.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-30
----------------------------------------

It's not in my character to delight in someone's pain. I do make rare exceptions. Sean Carroll dragging Eric Weinstein on Piers Morgan is one such rare occasion.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-29
----------------------------------------


So the Catholic church has $850K for statues, eh? I guess they were fined enough for pedophilia.
For once you actually said something I can get on board with. Put blame isn't a solution. And neither is the Democratic party.
insulting, adjective: 1. Kamala Harris asking for DNC donations today in a YouTube video ad. They have billionaires bribing them. Small donor donations mean nothing relatively. 2. See gaslighting.

Well, I enjoyed the brief reprieve from political ads on YouTube since November.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-28
----------------------------------------

The point is the corrupt rich have always been in DC. However, there has also waxed and waned those of the rich who followed the Constitution because they wanted Democracy for the country. That waned after LBJ and has since dried up. It is just corruption now.
Obama is wrong about nobody coming to save us.  The system is completely broken, it can't be saved. At best we can perhaps align with certain oligarchs given today's government.   T is going to burn it all down. I'm not aligning that. Make no mistake, picking oligarchs is not Democracy.
Democracy is dead. Democracy relies on the good faith of the rich and powerful to do what's in the public interest. We had that until LBJ. After that, only evil in DC, with some exceptions like Carter. Who was run out of town by the Democrats. They hated him, maybe more so than Rs.
The only thing the oligarchs care about is the financial system that defines their wealth. They don't care about anything else. They want to remove the public from it as much as possible. This is why so much money is going into AI. Eliminate jobs.
Make no mistake, the oligarchs are at war with each other. They will use the public to further their ends. This is all Obama and any of them are doing.  Obama gaslIghting us that we plebs are important is the same as T gaslighting MAGA.
Another option would be to ditch hierarchy in all its forms of corporations, capitalism, nations, etc. That requires a horizontal only structure, mesh. Fortunately there just happens to one ready to go, Irreni World Scale. Join an MGO today. 
Irreni.social
So what are our choices?  Well, one would be have a revolution and replace the current oligarchs with better ones. That option is not on the table. There are no good oligarchs.
No smart sane person would run for Congress. That's why there aren't any there. A perfect oligarchy set up of useful puppets though. The legislatures get rich doing the bidding of the oligarchs. That's our government now. Media is puppet theater.
If a planet buster asteroid were certain to hit this planet, there would be  millions, or billions in denial. The US is going to fail with the same certainty. The oligarchy is only for the oligarchy. All on Congress is dumber than a box of rocks.
Obama is the enemy. He always has been. He is of, by, and for the oligarchs. One might be rightly asking, where are the good oligarchs? The ones who are for the people. There aren't any. So many liberals are in denial about this.
I should  explain. We live in a hierarchy system that means only those at the top can change the system, that's by design. You know that, I know that. Obama is gaslighting you, making you think you are crazy, by suggesting the hierarchy will be changed by the plebs, when you know that's not true.
gaslighting

we deserve better

join an MTO day!
irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-05-27
----------------------------------------


I think it would be interesting to have a graph showing who is working for minimum wage over the decades. When I go into local fast food its not teenagers any more.
Christianity, ever the commandments for thee and not for me crowd.
Idolize our sacrifice and demonize self-worth
then sit back and wonder why we don't work

www.youtube.com/watch?v=xcEv...
Allen Ginsberg poetry in the 70s exposing that nothing has changed since the 1970s. Democracy has been dead many decades.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWkC...
Unemployment is defined as people filing for unemployment benefits. All T has to do is stop accepting all unemployment benefit applications and unemployment will be 0%.
We have repeated many many times. Children are still being maimed and dying from land mines in Vietnam. Agent orange and napalm, cruelty was the point. Terrorism.
The only Memorial day events I've attended are ones where the fire bombings of Dresden and Tokyo were recounted, as well as the unnecessary atomic bombs dropped on Japan. The cruelty and slaughter of civilians were  recounted as a lesson to never repeat again.
Chattel slavery was created and wide spread  by Christians. It is beyond the pale to demand moral credit for ending what you started. Only shame should prevail.
No death deserves memorialing by anyone other than those who knew them directly. To do so cheapens the deaths of those who, through no fault of their own, were killed. Memorial day solidifies collateral damage, cheapens life.
Germany before, during, and after WWII was 90% Christian. No other religion has failed so miserably at implementing its morality, and further Christianity was used as moral cover to kill millions of Jews. How much bigger moral failure does one need to declare Christianity failed and an enemy.
Know your enemy. Religion is your enemy.  Religion has huge gaping gaps in morality, like with war and rape, and religion only succeeds being used as moral cover. Know your enemy.
Progressives, P are going to be forever stuck in sinking quicksand immobility by promoting Christians like Buttiegeg. No one who is emeshed in Catholic dogma can be progressive. Ps need to be anti-theists or continue to fail at being Ps. Full stop.
Christianity, noun: 1. A religion with the worst record of moral implementation, an anti-religion that promotes immorality by giving it cover as moral. This is why the rich and powerful gravitate to it. 2. See cultural contradictions perfected.
Immigration is also a collosal failure of religion. It is insufficient to have one story about a good Samaritan that gets ignored. Morality ignored is worse than no morality. It provides immorality cover as moral. No religion has morals ignored more than Christianity.
The vacuum of morality regarding war is why Israel committing genocide in Gaza is permitted. This war is a colossal moral failure by the world. That war exposes and damns every world religion for failing to have morals in place to prevent such things from happening. Religion is a collosal failure.
... when humanity has a more complete moral set that encompasses war. This is what it means to be progressive, forever expanding the human set of morals needed to survive and thrive as a species. Rape, torture, nuclear weapons are all aspects of war awaiting our moral arrival and moral fulfillment.
Another aspect of war no religion has any moral guidance on is weapons of mass destruction, especially nuclear weapons. Seems yet another big gaping gap in objective morality just waiting to be filled. So on this Memorial day don't celebrate war. Instead look forward to, work forward to the days . .
Torture is just one aspect of war that no religion addresses directly, head on. Rape being the male everyday torture of women. Yes it's illegal but women are tortured in the due process. No religion defines rape as a subclass of torture and holistically has morality regarding torture. No religion.
Of course, pockets of moral thinking have always existed. One of my favorites comes from Washington, W.  W  immorraly killed people for the simple act of dessertion, yet W refused to torture POWs for info. Why? Because he wanted to live in a country with better character than one that used torture.
Think of the staggering moral vacuum humans have with war. There is no common morality of war. None, a complete vacuum since the species has been in existence. Anything goes in war is anti-morality, or evil. It is incomprehensible that our species was born with such a vacuum.
Objective morality is a common workhorse of religion. It is used to validate religion as necessary. The argument fails on its definition, though,  if morality is constantly changing, which it is, thank g*d. All religions fail the morality of war.
Racism, misogyny, patriarchy, hierarchy, greed, instant gratification, and so many other immoral things also await our human maturity. We've grown in many immoral areas, like accepting gays and gay marriages. On this Memorial day remember that human culture takes time to change.
Memorial day. Celebrating war, death and destruction, is immoral. Memorializing doubly so. Everything about war is shameful. Humans glorifying war is human history. We have many other such amoral things to grow out of as a species.
Capitalism is in large part exploitation of human weakness. The information age ushered in cheap mass information that Capitalism uses to exploit more human weakness in the human brain. The solution is to ditch Capitalism. Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
There are lots of neighborhoods the police won't respond to calls. Where the gangs are. If Uvalde showed us anything it is that the cops are craven cowards. They shoot people, unarmed, in the back. 43 shots.
At some point, in the not too distant present, people  in the US are going to hire protection from the police. As in warlords for neighborhoods. Sounds like a Rage Against The Machine song. Warlords For Neighborhoods.
...or, or, or, hear me out, centrists are just lazy thinkers who go as deep as "give everyone something" and call it a day. Centrists are neutral territory that don't want to deal with problems.
Raven hair, and ruby lips, sparks fly from her fingertips.
...and the original for your doodling desires.
Heart Attacks! I love this painting. Friendship, hurt, love, anger, helplessness, support, and perhaps payback coming. 
And so much wall space for doodling. Just perfect.
Happy Monday! Felt in the mood to dood, l.

Claims asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence. -Hitchens Razor
----------------------------------------
2025-05-26
----------------------------------------

The US Military's tradition of silence is based on unfounded ideas of respect. Most notably the military swears an oath to the constitution. If they want to be silent criticizing something it should be the constitution. Military silence about unconstitutional orders implies an oath to the President.
That would be me, except clean up is not really my heart's desire. But my last day at Illumina is July 18th.
You want to know what those orange stripes on Jupiter are called?

Mars bars. 

I'll see myself out. :)
Never a day goes by without someone in religious power going to prison for pedophilia. Yet people still subscribe to religion. Beyond insane.
Happy Sun Day! "Can Irreni Do Better Than Democracy". 
I posted a new post with accompanying esearch article today, "The Irreni Guarantee". This article is meant to provide reassurance that joining an MGO can be reliably guaranteed to do better than democracy.

irreni.social/can-irreni-d...
I mean seriously, 90% human-like? On what scale? Seriously, YouTube should be ashamed for running this ad. Catfishing on steroids.  The irony is that AdultFriendFinder has mostly bots posing as real women and whatever this is will have some real women posing as bots for rich accounts.
Capitalizing on male loneliness is peak capitalist human-weakness exploitation. You are in control, we didn't make you buy cigarettes, packaged foods, alcohol, etc. Instant gratification weakness defines Coca-Cola. Still, being neurodivergent an "indistinguishable" test would be perversely fun.
I like this kind of tell-your-own-story painting. She has no tea and there is no chair by the other tea? And the two yellow, unopened roses? Suggests one suitor came and left read roses. Then another suitor came with yellow roses, stood the entire time, was rejected, and just left.
I'm unable to think in such dichotomies because I'm nuetudivergrnt. My form of it rejects dichotomies. Sometimes one finds a certain gratitude for stark differences that exclude much of conventional thinking
When I watched the video by Derek then I felt sad at how his Christian upbringing had twisted his mind many years after leaving. In group/out group is such insidious religious ideology.
Time and time again when religion is faced with either choosing insider/outsider dichotomy or love your neighbor, hating immigrants always gets the most chosers. The evil of dichotomy wins.
If challenged to write a book on what is so evil about religion then enforced dichotomies would be the top or near to it. Religion is so evil. The twist is "love your neghbor", "turn the other cheek" and other contradictory to dichotomy ideas exist to provide moral cover.
You are either liberal or conservative. Christian or not. Good or evil. This kind of thinking is offensive to everything it means to be human, to be free, to be empathetic. Dichomities insult everyone's intelligence.
Derek in his video is preaching against insider/outsider thinking, in groups and out groups. You are either going to heaven or hell, you can't do or be both. This dichotomy thinking is so pernicious within religious dogma that it is taken for granted bt everyone.
I'm an engineer at heart. I build things in my day job and in my night hours. When am I am criticizing religion, it is not the end game. Irreni is the end game.
Lighting candles. I am as anti-theist as they get. Religion is evil. There is no value in religion that isn't done better elsewhere. I light candles. Irreni World Scale is a collection of ideas far superior to religion, all in place.
So I watched the entire 1hr video linked. Another instance of the Jon Stewart post I commented on if you scroll a bit down.
2 points:
1. It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness
2. Christianity promotes insider/outsider dichotomy  and not nuance.

youtu.be/l1BtJOQG9hw?...
MGO is a micro-governing organization. It is the unit in which mesh society is built around. Be sure to hit the research link in the nav bar for much discussion.
Yeah, join an MGO!
Irreni.social

----------------------------------------
2025-05-25
----------------------------------------

The rocks are outstanding. The sky looks like some dude smiling giving a thumbs, up admiring the painting.
Ideology is pathological. Ideology is the notion to be a good person one needs to follow a set of ideals.Ideology. You know what's worse? Mixed ideologies of two parties perpetually. Irreni means innovation replaces revolution, engineering not ideology.

The comment section on this indicative of bad philosophy of puritanical thinking. Jon has good takes and bad takes. Both are true. Overall I score Jon as good. Washington owned slaves. Overall I score Washington as good. Puritanism is bad philosophy.
There is one other sovereign group in Irreni: management, M. M has only one power: membership.  M's main focus is a healthy balance of members per MGO. Otherwise M is advisory and administrative. M keeps bad people from self grouping.
An MGO is a sovereign group of 30 people. They write their constitution, and 30 votes mean all votes are significant. 30 people enables rapid constitution changes, real time perhaps. Large groups can never change rapidly and this is a death knell for all Democracies.
To whit, Irreni mesh society focuses people's attention with a healthy info diet using two primary features: small day-to-day community and the Cold network. This focus includes voting within a group of 30 to mean every vote is important.
MGOs are expected to limit member time on the hot network. One hour per week, like that. Cold network has no restrictions. People will get in the habit of delayed gratification, waiting at least a day for info. Self-managed info use is killing us.
The Cold Network is delayed info for 24-72 hours. AI uses censoring policies established by the MGO to process info into healthy balances. It also takes away instant gratification dopamine hits as well as removing all click bait. No ads.
In addition to small community focusing attention, Irreni provides info management via an invention, the Cold Neteork. The Hot network is what we have today. Use it too long and it burns.
We need a healthy diet of information. Self-guided tours are unhealthy, obviously.  MGOs of fixed size 30 focus the attention on the MGO. This reinstalls the balance of celebration and doom. Humans aren't equipped to self manage mass information, a firehose.
News that's doom sells. This has always been the case. In the information age we can find a bottomless well of misery, 24 hours Fox News. No empathy can survive taking on everyone's death and misery. What is needed is focused attention.
Happy Saturday! Dick Cheney promoted authoritarianism as Unitary Executive, GW wrote a bazillion EOs. GW was installed by the Supreme Court. The list of Democracy death cuts are many and did not start with T.
So close. Democracy is dead. It has been since Raygun. Ds voted with Rs across party lines more times under Raygun than any other President. Ds enacted deregulation and dismantled Democracy.
...no one is offering alternatives. Democracy is going to fail. It doesn't scale for tech advancement, population, etc. If religion and techo-capitalist authoritarianism are the only plans on the table then that's our future. Decide now to join mesh society, join an MGO today!
As far as I can tell there are two plans right now to manage tech society going forward.
1. Graft religion onto tech culture.
2. Reduce population to one billion and establish techno-capitalist authoritarianism. 

Neither has a snowballs chance in hell of working. But here's the thing...
The tech bros have a manifesto to reduce the Earth's population to one billion. They think they can manage one billion. They can't. We don't manage one billion. We manage 30 people. Then, about 10% of the MGO resources are focused outside the MGO. That is something people can understand.
We need to establish meaning in people's lives. That means people need to focus on a life they can understand on a scale they can understand.  Life that is made possible by mesh society and MGOs.  No one understands a trillion dollars. No one can preserve identity amongst millions and billions.
Democracy doesn't scale because hierarchy doesn't scale. Technology is only going to further isolate and alienate people as the average IQ because less and less able to understand any of it. It is nonsense to them. Once it gets to that level, then all nonsense is the same, so choose your poison.
MGOs provide social mooring. Groups of MGOs will form families of MGOs. This is a mesh society. Projects are implemented under management and contracts written by MGOs for shared group benefit. Unlike nations, mesh societies scale infinitely, certainly to planet operations needed to manage climate.
In the 1990s a Senator said, "no one understands a trillion dollars." Human brains haven't evolved to emotionally manage scale. The MGO solves this problem by focusing life first and foremost on the MGO.
The MGO is a fixed sized 30 people government. It is the focus of most of the time people spend in their lives. MGOs are survival units. Like spaceships that house, provide food energy and so on. Rugged individualism was always a bad dream. You need people. The minimum set is 30, not 1.
We see this in increased rates of suicide in men over 50, in young men today. Reality is meaningless to them on one hand, so on the other they pick whatever nonsense they want.

Irreni World Scale fixes this social problem with the MGO, or micro-governing organization.
As I said previously. QANON, anti-vax, flat-earthers, are indications that the average IQ person is unmoored from this tech society. If one doesn't understand the world around them then every kind of nonsense has the same value.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-24
----------------------------------------

politician, noun: 1. someone who gets elected by stating the obvious as something insightful.

we deserve better
The average IQ is becoming less valuable. If anyone besides a few sci-fi readers had taken this sci-fi observation seriously perhaps we could have programs in place to offset ChatGPT. The avg IQ people are frantic. They don't understand the world around them and more so each day act crazier.
This is what happens when you pay ransom, I mean insurance, to a bully.  Especially if you are rich. They keep coming back for more. Tom Cook needs to donate to T's inauguration again.
So the Catholic church response to the mass exodus due to pedophile priests is forced pedophilia, doubling down on the Catholic horrific history of rape, torture, murder and mass graves all over the world when they run schools. Yeah, let's do that again.
If one looks at Latin America or Africa for how despotism plays out then warlords are coming. The US gov will only control large metropolitan regions.

Police killing thousands every year with impunity is legal. I'm guessing those numbers are at least going to double under T.
Religion, noun: 1. self-righteous blowhards who live to hate and condemn people. 

War. If their is one topic all religions fail at moralizing it's war.
Rainy and in the 40s tomorrow. March weather.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-23
----------------------------------------

Yes, I am surprised they bothered since Trump will just pardon.
Clearly not constitutional. The legislative branch can't eliminate the judicial branch check on it.
I don't get it. I thought there were like 8-12 million brown people to be deported? So bizarre.
They no longer can be bothered to lie about tinkle down economics. It's just "let them drink tinkle!"
There is no currency in Irreni. Currency is pre-Internet technology. We can now barter directly. No need for currency. Irreni contracts specify goods and services directly delivered. 

We need to get out of paper thinking.
When Churchill observed that Democracy was a terrible form of government, but was the best available at the time, I'm pretty sure his meaning was  we should keep inventing government.
The reason pre-1900 governments are so convoluted is they require promote hierarchy. No single person can have nearly enough knowledge, empathy, or  time to govern. So branches of government mimic a virtual hierarchy. Ditch the hierarchy and things streamline immediately. 
irreni.social
Proof Irreni scales. Irreni has two fundamental design features: MGOs of fixed size 30 are the only sovereign and projects are how MGOs group efforts. This simplicity scales to solar systems, galaxies, and universes. 
Now you know.
irreni.social
Humans and all life should continue millions, billions and trillions of years. This is a design requirement of Irreni. To do this we need to expand into the galaxy and beyond. Irreni is designed for this. That's modern government.
irreni.social
There are no taxes in Irreni. Well almost. Each MGO, a sovereign of fixed size 30 people, is free to governor as they see fit. If a group of 30 people want to implement taxes, I guess they could. Silly though. Projects are funded directly, no indirect taxes.
irreni.social
I'm a free thinker because I'm neurodivergent and see the world differently and live it differently every day. Right now everyone is needs to see the world differently. It is tough to get out of your comfort zone, your identity zone. But you need to do it. Find your path.
Rule of law* is rule of hierarchy. Therefore there is no rule of law in Irreni. No lawyers either. No prisons. Instead MGOs of fixed size 30 are the only sovereign gov. All behavior is regulated by a small sovereign. 

See how easy that is?

*Also religion. F religion.
irreni.social
1. Vote banks. Casting votes is paper times. Banking votes is Internet times. Fraud is easy to detect with continuous tallying.
2. Projects not laws. There are no laws in Irreni, only projects. Projects are renewed every five years to keep up with the times. 
See how easy that is? 
irreni.social
I still don't get why neurotypicals are stuck on pre-1900 government designs. 

Not only is Irreni 21st century, it has built in design to keep up with the times, which Democracy does not. Democracy moves too slowly to keep up. 

Join an MGO! today! 
irreni.social
I feel like we're in some end stage Civ game tech tree.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-22
----------------------------------------

And expensive environmental regulations, State and Federal. Some regulations are prohibitive like toxic chemicals and heavy metals.
Capitalism can never tackle global projects. Personal profit defines capitalism, not social group benefits.
Had enough? It is not just Trump's criming and corruption that is news every day, it is also Democrats stabbing their voters in the back, every day. 

Had enough? Join an MGO! today! 
irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-05-21
----------------------------------------

Personally I think the "blue" states should form a regulatory and financial alliance. Sign agreements and bypass the Feds. Stop using the ACH. Set up their own. No need to secede, just ignore.
Don't we already have too many people in prison? Lawyers cost money. Women who come forward become targets. This law will be weaponized. Take down requests by individuals  are ignored daily. More law does not equal more enforcement. AI just violated everyone's IP with impunity.
DuckDuckGo, the original LLM, years ahead of OpenAI. 😋
And? Bernie has been saying this for thirty years. Obviously the D's don't give a s**t. Which is why they 86'ed his P runs. What he's saying has been obvious to everyone for a least since 2008., All talk and no walk Bernie.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-20
----------------------------------------

Have I got a deal for you! Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social

Neil Stephenson does this multiple times in the same book. Moon is blown up, des, ruins life on Earth, fast forward to Moon orbit only culture, then again to Earth. Eons.
I've enjoyed your leeds photo essay and keep thinking to recommend a sideshow set to something like John Willams Star Wars music. Dramatic juxtaposed with the everday.
Biden supporters on this site want to shame Biden's critics rather than recognize Biden's evils. Heaven forbid they ever ask themselves why Obama picked Biden as his VP. It might break their brains. And Gaza.
We haven't voted for the lesser of two evils in the 21st Century. We've just voted for evil. The cognitive dissonance and denial people have coming to terms with that may very well destroy this country if it hasn't already.
The irony of T calling B the  worst P is that T is wrong in his criticisms because T supports the real criticisms,  the evil B did of racism against blacks and Palestinians. B is not the worst P. However, the B as the worst Senator in the 20th Century has a case to be made.
There is nothing lesser about the evil Biden rained down on blacks with the crime bill. I see Biden supporters the same way they see Trump supporters. Bigotry. And Gaza. America's moral circle begins and ends with the economy. And that's not morality.
Joe Biden is evil. The 1992 Cime Bill put 300,000 more cops on the streets and cemented a black prison pipeline. Millions of black lives destroy. And Gaza. Biden is the epitome of white-washing and he white privileged his way into the Whitehouse.
I've seen this meme quite a bit since Earth Day. The question I have is what does "Act like it" even mean? I know what it means for me. Join an MGO, today! Jealousy inherent in  hierarchy = competition = capitalism will never get to "act like it". Never. 
Irreni.social
What's insulting about all these thoughts and prayers is Joe Biden has the best health care. So what, the puny god is going to see to him specifically, not the children in Gaza? Death is a natural part of life. No need to infanticide, I mean be infantile about it. You're an adult. Act like it.
So we have Pete Buttigieg giving thoughts and prayers, AOC cosplaying as anti-fascist, and Bernie on tour giving the same ineffectual message he has for thirty years, except perhaps to effective in suppressing action by giving catharsis. That's the best state of American politics these days.
Millions long for immortality that don't know what to do with themselves on a rainy day. No wait, that's the wrong quote. Ahh. we mock native Americans who dance for rain but honk our horns in rush hour in NYC. That's the one.

Thoughts and prayers is anti-vax. It is exactly the same nonsense.
GIMP, ftw
----------------------------------------
2025-05-19
----------------------------------------

you know it is too bad there aren't any political solutions out there. Socialism, anarchy, etc all predate technology. It is either that or people have wet dreams, fantasizing about Democrats doing something, anything.

Oh wait, that's right, that would me. I have all the solutions. 
Irreni.social
My generation had multiple six memes. We should start Deep Six 47 trending.
Project 2025 is morally bankrupt enough there is no limit on the ends justifying the means for them. Pence only slightly less so. It would be interesting in an accident gawking kinda way to ask Pence about Project 2025 supporting Trump in all things.
Shakedowns.  They aren't tariffs, they are shskedowns.  When Trump says other countries pay for tariffs what he means is they pay him to stop the tariffs. Gangster politics
OMG! A Quillete article. I haven't seen one since the James Damore, Google guy. Quillete, noun: drivel only expanded to 20,000 words. Yikes! Nothing's changed. Leopards ate my face pity party. Definitely on brand for Quillete.
Great shot!
Trump will be given a King title by the Middle-East. He loves being treated like a King and he'll finish his term running the US from his Kingdom. Nothing stopping him.
Clowning the clowns. Black women keeping it 100%. White privilege folk are still blinded. She calls DC you'all and forgoes any Party designations. Because they are all evil.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=HdDE...
Ummmm, if one extrapolates from Galileo disproving flat Earth and combine it with Repubs newest bill to make ban all porn, then the Repubs will ban all astonomy and shut down all NASA telescopes. Because, you know, flat Earth. Try and make something so stupid MAGA won't do it. I dare ya.
This is for all who were American adults during 9/11. I'm still not okay with Saudi Arabia. I'm as sickened by them as much as the day it happened. Flights were canceled except, and I'm not making this up, for Saudis. That's our gov. It did that.
t is not about fairness, but is human nature to accept burdens as shared burdens, knowing everyone is under the same burden. The US has been ignoring Veterans since the Vietnam war. Homeless, PTSD, mental problems, unable to work. Ignored. Shame on us. Join an MGO to change! 
irreni.social
We all must personally take care of dependents everyday. Every single day. If not we create some delusion of Utopia. Gotta kill that. The best Utopian fantasy killer is taking responsibility for the least among us. In your face. Every day.
It is not about fairness, but is human nature to accept...
You can't ignore problems and make them go away. You can't get ahead by staying even. Democracy creates the illusion we don't have to handle problems personally. We pay taxes and fantasize the gov is the end-all, be-all, cure-all. We are suffering the consequences thereof. 
irreni.social
We can't reduce murder by killing murderers or putting them in prisons. There are no prisons in Irreni. Everyone is in an MGO always. We have to face problems to fix them. We need to care enough to study the problems first. Then do it. Join an MGO!
irreni.social
Yet another teaser regarding Irreni healthcare. MGOs are managed. Each MGO is required to carry a 50% dependency load of humans. You know kids, infirm, elderly. Today we push dependents out of our lives. Not in Irreni. In sight, in mind. In care, in interest to resolve problems.
A little teaser about Irreni. MGO = fixed size 30 people. 24 are full time MGO support. 3 are Irreni support. 3 are project workers. 3/30 = 10% of the human pop. is managing the 100% We don't have anywhere near that today. If you want things to change you have to change them. 
irreni.social
Happy Saturday! We can sit around and cajole each other, or, or, or, hear me out. We can do something about mental health. Join an MGO! Now you may be saying to yourself, surely he didn't design new society to mange mental health. I'm neurodivergent. 
irreni.social
www.youtube.com/watch?v=PCMC...
Trump may be immune, no one else is.
Trump gave orders to remove people from the US without due process. That's clearly unconstitutional without needing the a court ruling. So, any military or gov employee can easily be court martialed or indicted for breaking that oath knowingly. Either that oath means something or it doesn't.
The courts ruling what Trump is doing is unconstitutional means the military and government employees carrying out his orders are the ones acting unconstitutional. My question is this: if one swears an oath to the constitution is that oath enforceable before the courts rule?
----------------------------------------
2025-05-18
----------------------------------------



Your time to step up is now. Being brave in the modern age is no longer violence based. The new frontiers are all ideas. Democracy is dead. Mesh society is ready to go. All you need to do is educate yourself and join an MGO today! 
Irreni.social
Destruction is easy. Failing is easy. Misery is easy. What's left of opportunity in American is being destroyed. Never perfect, always limited to only some, but letting conservatives destroy what's left is not an answer. Anti-education must not be made the norm
Fear and hatred is what defines "American" and patriotism for conservatives. That cannot stand. We must not let them smash to pieces the land of opportunity into land of desolation and desperation, aka theocracy. Look at any Muslim country today. Or Latin American country.
Fear and hatred consumes conservatives, Evangelicals. Not a shred of happiness or joy in the public arena, unless one counts what they feel inducing pain and suffering in others. The entire right-wing media business is beating drums of fear and hatred. Terrible living.
Imagine for a moment the emotional toil  of being afraid and hateful all the time the way the right is. Totally exhausting. My neurodivergent meltdowns are crying. I mean up to an hour of chest pain, hyperventilating crying. Headache inducing. Such misery to embrace willingly.
Finally, after all these years, I figured out what "deep state" means.

deep state: 1. an expert or anyone qualified to do a job, 2. people who use the number 86, 3. the constant  level of fear and hatred needed to maintain popularity as right wing.

Corruption cannot and wants not to fix itself. It never has. The best one can do is stop the new bleeding. We're not even doing that. $400 million plane. We are so toast. $1 trillion war budget. You don't recover from that. Not possible.
Staring into the maw of powerlessness and being rational about isn't a reasoned ability,but a lived one. I didn't reason my way into this detachment. I don't think there is any way to reason people into the reality the US gov is evil, failed, and unfixable. It can't be done.
I don't blink or feel any anxiety at all, knowing our gov is failed, evil, and not fixable. Neurotypicals can't handle any truth that means they are powerless. I'm powerless everyday. That ends in y.
Sometimes I think neurotypicals suffer from an extreme aversion to admitting no control. Something we neurdivergents face daily. If an asteroid were predicted to hit and wipe out most life, neurotypicals couldn't handle no control.
90% incumbency rate and 10% approval rating Congress has. If that's not an evil system, then I don't know what is. We are frogs being boiled slowly while the D's all insider trade tariff rug pulls.  Yeah that's right, they propaganda you that only Trumpers do that.
US federal politicians have a 90% incumbency rate. That is not because they do a great job. It is because they rigged the system by rigging primaries with huge incumbent money. You need to get mad. The D's are not your friend.
We need to be crystal clear and unequivocal that the D's are pure evil precisely because they have normalized spending trillions on wars and nothing on healthcare. We just accept it like a traffic light.
Until Americans get out of their denial and admit all politicians in DC are pure evil, then nothing is going to change. The D's would rather spend $1 trillion each year on death machines then a $1 on life machines. We've let them normalize the outrageous. Pure evil, all of them.
The US military budget is set to increase to $1 trillion for one year. And we are not at war. Geez us. We are not at war. Surely, we could reduce military spending to pay for Medicare. Nope. Every single politician in DC is pure evil.
Just a random reminder that the "War on Terror" lasted 18 years across both parties. Wasted 8-10 trillion dollars. When Obamacare was implemented the estimated cost for universal Medicare was 4 Trillion. They said we couldn't afford it. The Democrats are not your friends.
Coultergiest is still alive? News to me. I guess Twitter has a new rep: first social media museum. We should x-terminate it even so.
Oh look, Useless Collins waves hands around explaining to no one that Donny will surely learn his lesson after this.
And the Governor and Senators are nowhere to be found. 

Tragedy.

"If we are going to build an argument for climate realism that is premised on the fact that other countries' emissions will matter more than the United States going forward, we need to have a theory of change for how they will decarbonize."

Mesh society. Democracy will never do it.
irrnei.social
Happy Music! Happy Me! From the Land Down Under. Music I grew up with. Ensemble, song writing, many talented musicians. Great hooks. This was pop music at the time. Sadly, the pop music scene since 2000 has been solo artists.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=IxTu...






Our hope will depend on a world without end, whatever the hopeless may say.




We should pass an amendment to lower the threshold for the House and the Senate to 25% of votes needed to impeach the President, Judges, anyone. Wouldn't solve anything except to either curb authoritarianism or expose it. The Democrats support Trump. They're just gaslighting us to the contrary.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-17
----------------------------------------

If one thinks AI is garbage now, just wait until SEO is implemented in AI and every word sold to the highest bidder, like Google search


How To Hold
----------------------------------------
2025-05-16
----------------------------------------

Yeah, but it can be so much fun. See, "Venus on the Half Shell", by Phillip Jose Farmer.
Because a police state is what they want. Not the BS in their profile.

----------------------------------------
2025-05-15
----------------------------------------

Murder gets redefined by ever broader laws of self defense. 
Please read. I
Prior to the "stand your ground laws" it would have been murder. Please read.
The irony of the abolish cops discussion is that with stand-your-ground laws, open carry, etc. then citizens are murdering with impunity, see Kyle Rittenhouse. Almost making the discussion moot except the trillions spent on police.
If cops are abolished the protection will become private. Private security should not be paid for by the state, but customer. Further private security should follow the same laws as all private citizens. In fact, if police were doing that then  we wouldn't be having this conversation.
I guess it was inevitable that the richest nation decides that the easiest and best target to destroy and plunder is itself.
Happy Wednesday! Irreni is designed for this and  mesh society scales to solar system and galaxy expansion because it has no central gov. Just projects that can scale to any number of mesh nodes.
Irreni.social
Cops don't handle 99.99% of crime, which is white collar. Scams are prolific in the crypto world. In fact our President is doing pump and dumps. Trump is criming with impunity. Cops murder people. Police solve nothing and certainly aren't worth the tax dollars they dran.
Too bad we won't be able to afford it or have trained doctors to do it.






humuhumunukunukuāpuaʻa)



I'm just trying to imagine how big a prison they are going to need to hold more than 1/2 the population.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-14
----------------------------------------

When I was young I felt bad for not being normal. Then I read the average American in the 1980s watched 20-40 hours of TV per week.  I put normal in my rearview  mirror, changed my name to Mybrid and embraced weird. YB normal? Functional yes.
Lord of Light. Nice. My American cover is mostly black. 1969 Hugo Award winner and inspiration for Irreni. Introduces  "accelerationism" where the rich withhold high-tech for themselves and not for public use because the public is too stupid. Resistance movement is called  accelerationusm.
We spent time at the Pornhub Awards. You didn't receive award money and spend it. Better editing please.
Life being a feedback loop means if a society is designed around policing then you can't just remove it without destroying the system that depends it. Instead, a new feedback loop, or adaptation, needs to replace it. We need to dissolve the police with alternate adaptations.
I want to spend a minute on defunding and abolishing the police. Why did defund the police fail? Because of a lack of education about human nature, all nature. Life is a feedback loop. Evolution is a feedback loop.
Go to irreni.social and start reading up on new ideas for gov. Hell, if only to free your imagination and unclog your mind from treating government ideas as dogma.
You should definitely join an MGO. There are literally hundreds of new ideas to try out and experiment on with gov. Treating gov as an immutable dogma of fixed ideas is criminal. It is a crime against thinking and imagination. A crime so severe that it will literally bring about our extinction.
We should've moved to vote banking and continuous voting decades ago. But here are, stuck on paper that requires casting votes and not banking them. It's inconceivable and incredible that we won't consider new ideas for gov. It's literally killing us.
Continous voting prevents large scale fraud because statistics can be used to validate sudden changes. This relies on human behavior versus human identity. The bank verifies people no different than financial banks, including  joint custody or power of attorney to help people who are tech didabled.
For example, Irreni relies on vote banking and continuous voting. A vote is currency. You stick it in a bank account that has a balance available 24/7. Do you realize how many advantages their are to continously  vote banking alone? No more polling. The votes can be tallied continously.
It's inconceivable really that we are stuck in the 18th century with capitalism and democracy. Irreni is an Internet gov. It wholly depends it. Tech has tons of advantages we could be using in gov. Yet we are stuck on paper, still.
I was naive in my early 20s and started inventing mesh gov. The ideas were things I read and cobbled together. Yet over the past four decades not a single person has put forth new forms of gov, even as world govs have eroded ever more drastically. It truly boggles the mind.
Every day I find it incredible people are stuck on past forms of government. Religion has dogma that keeps it stuck. There is no rationale for treating democracy, capitalism, socialism etc. z as a fixed set of options, or  dogma. Why?
Trump, more ICE agents. You ALWAYS  get more not less. Fear gets ratcheted up. They are going to imprison you willfully in the comfort of your own home. That's ACAB.
America has no conscience about this. The sleep carefree. This moral rot has a way of catching up to you. Namely fears are stoked for more police. War on drugs? Clinton 300,000 new police to imprison blacks.
The police came into existence as slave catchers, then back catchers. That's what they are today. Blacks in prisons have 2-3 times percent population than total population. Cops have continously killed and imprisoned blacks since inception.
I think it was Franklin who said that those who give up freedom for security eventually end up with neither. ACAB is not just knee-jerk emotional reaction, but historical reflection of police states.

----------------------------------------
2025-05-13
----------------------------------------

Large nitpick. They hire the dumbest, meanest people possible to be cops. I'm pretty sure that means "policy" and "standards"  are  four letter words to them. If you pulled over a random cop and asked them to recite  policy and standards I'm sure it would be crickets. Bullying is it.
This is your brain on lobbyists.
I don't have kids, so I'm sure I'm wrong about this, but if I did have kids I'd be deathly worried about their future. It is not just the US gov failing, regressing. We act like just voting in different politicians will within a broken system will fix it.
Irreni.social
I'm not sure what about Substack triggers me being #neordivergent. It could be the red theme, or the  usability, the terrible UI/UX, the lack of usability, or the usability one gets from Y combinator, Stanford grads, start-up in it just for a quick buck and void of any other objective or humanity.
Happy Tuesday! Tech should not be for profit. The damage tech has done to society is catastrophic. Tech has been irresponsible with information, weaponizing information for profit.
A parade is pre-TV entertainment. Nobody is going to watch something that analog. When it comes up on my feeds I'm labeling it porn. Cause that's just right-wing masterbatory material.
Not for a living but for design. We need to ditch the inefficient of hierarchy for mesh society.



By the time America wakes up to the fact All Cops Are Bad, it will be too late.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-12
----------------------------------------

MediaHuman Youtube Downloader works great. You can opt to rip video or just audio.
If you ever get the chance to see the Empire Strikes Back on the big screen, do it. Those opening scenes with the long pan of the huge spaceship is an experience. Sadly, a woefully under utilized concept in movies these days, really long emotional pans that make you feel.
Star Wars was fun. Didn't take itself too seriously. Dialog was throw-away level, but oh the symphonic music. Those opening notes of the theme song riveted you in your seat, you couldn't move or breathe. Star Wars is pure pop culture. I loved it. Well, the first two movies anyway. :)
Lots of Star Wars hand-ringing, I see. /wink 
1. So many adorable characters in just one movie. Name any other? Luke, Hans, Lea, Chewey, C3PO,  R2D2, Vader, Lando, Obi-Wan, I mean seriously.
2 light-hearted, fun romance,
3 Cool spaceships
4. First compelling space world building
Thanks
Tenure enables disregarding so many things, accountability being paramount. The kernel of truth buried in right-wing hatred of academia is that tenure is rotten.
Sadly, never had any interest in religion or philosophy. Something about my brain. I am very much a social engineer though.
I like this direction of thinking. An ex is a Nichiren Buddhist. She invited me to "preach" at her temple. I never read up on it but she said that Buddhism teaches the path to enlightenment is common to all and not secret knowledge such as knowing Christ.
One last thing on signal-to-noise thinking. Allow people the freedom to have their own formulas, even binary ones. You hurt yourself the most with binary thinking, walling off signal you might otherwise need. A prison.
Am I going to trash Gaimans books? No. I've reread "Good Omens" and will do so again, no qualms at all. Gaiman's books don't display a misogynistic signal. Sadly, my favorite author I read as a teen did display misogyny and as entertainment I cannot recommend. Signal-to-noise and what's at stake.
Entertainment is low stakes to society. Men abusing women is massive and large scale, very high stakes. Am I canceling Gaiman? No. Because canceling comes from all-or-nothing thinking. But weigh8ng what's at stake of entertainment signal versus women abuse weighs easily to the financial blockade.
Financial patronage is a different thing. Neil Gaiman is an author I've enjoyed and own his books. Signal. However, since his abuse of women has been revealed then I won't buy any more books. But TV shows and movies involve many other actors and such getting paid. That decision is not binary for me.
This "not torturing" character was trotted out by a few journalists when Bush Jr implemented turture waterboarding. Bush Jr was also an idiot of mostly noise and no signal.  Time is short, we must limit what we engage with and signal-to-noise ratio is far superior to binary thinking.
On the signal side, Washington refused to torture to acquire military intelligence. When asked about it he replied he was trying to build a country with a superior character than the one being overgrown and he felt not torturing was a part of that character.
Signal-to-noise ratio. Start there. I've never read Mein Kemph mining it for wisdom. The reason is that I've read history about WWII and Hitler was an idiot. Too much noise. Washington the slave owner made many great decisions I can recite.
One man and one woman is not a natural thing. All or nothing thinking is. People's flawed intuition is to intuit simple as moral and this is why they glom onto one man and one woman and not because that  makes any sense at all. Don't trap yourself into binary thinking. That's the sermon.
This prison is the failure that people who don't like cancel culture are intuiting.  Religion takes advantage of this flaw in human nature by bifurcating everything and oversimplifying. Heaven or Hell.  One man and one woman. One man and one woman is not a natural thing.
Sunday Sermon. Sam Harris is wrong on Israel but right on religion. Christopher Hitchens was wrong on Iraq  but right on religion. Jefferson and Washington both owned slaves yet otherwise were great moralists.  Black and white thinking is a prison of your own making.
Happy Sunday! Shout out to all the neurodivergent whose Mom's abused them mightily and created mental health problems. One symptom is dream flying. I dreamed I could fly every night well into my 30s, almost 20 years after leaving. Hang in there.

----------------------------------------
2025-05-11
----------------------------------------

ACAB. Hawk won't say it, but I will. They were lynchings. Heartbreaking. 
www.youtube.com/watch?v=B4Jp...
Arresting a black mayor is a thinly veiled racist attempt to spark another round of BLM level of protests. They know if they can repeat those protests then their base will support martial law. That is the end game.
Intimidate critics and blacks. They are racists.
Or AI on the front for hallucinations.
WLS in Chicago in the 70s/80s had a morning drive comedian duo who hosted the award winning, "Animal Stories". The award was for worst program. The stories were juvenile, snakes coming up from toilets kind of thing. Never forgot when I learned the award was for worst.
Side note. This android spell checker finally, finally, after decades of prayer, has the word "ain't" in it. All hail the mighty Spaghetti Monster!
We absolutely, positively must reject dogma, doctrine, ideology and any social construct that blocks experimenting. If dogma, doctrine, and idealogy are "true" then the  experiments will integrate to infinity to them and therefore as constructs are unnecessary.
Mesh society is project society. Projects double as group effort benefits and social experiments. In mesh society projects have a five year lifespan until renewal. At renewal the experiment benchmarks are measured. This is the experiment part. No success, no renewal.
Small cultures are the quickest to adopt results of new experiments. Cultures of millions and billions not so much. MGOs are cultures, or sovereign nations, of fixed size 30 people. When part of a mesh, they are also mesh nodes.
If you want to take control of your own fate with increasing predictability, then you need a highly advanced experimental society. Democracy ain't it. Religion is not experimental at all. You need mesh society with the smallest cultures possible.
The Pope's stupid claims about lack of faith are baseless. 0% chance of being right. What makes it worse is that it is dogma and never open to improvement. This makes it random. Random has some chance of being right, but never predictable. Religion relies  on random chance success and touts it.
Further, Irreni is 100% an experimental system. Meaning we start at 10% and keep experimenting to get better, 11%. Religion is fixed percent because it is ideology and dogma based. Irreni has no ideology or dogma, nothing to block improvements.
What people rely on when dismissing low probability is their intuition. That's not how science works. If your choices are a 10% chance or 0%, aka random, the 10% is better. Pope Leo's claims are 100% BS, or 0% chance. Irreni is based on best science has 10%. You should pick 10%.
When social engineering such as with Irreni one is working on the margins. People dismiss say a 10% chance for success naively. Yes, most social science is unreliable. That's because a 10% chance of success is unreliable.
When people start making general claims about human nature then reply with, "cite your sources and give the confidence." If they have no sources or claim high confidence then as a basic rule you can dismiss them outright.
As someone who has studied culture, society, and modern anthropology for decades while on my journey to create mesh society based on the best science, I can tell you that there almost no high confidence claims about aggregate human nature.
It is lying, you know. If I say, without evidence, the Spaghetti Monster can make you rich, then I'm lying. The Pope is lying. He has no evidence. The religious faking evidence by claiming their religion says so is still 100% fabrication lying. Either cite your sources or you are lying.
So if you are tired of all the anti-science gaslighting by politicians and the Pope, then join an MGO. Today!

Irenni.social
Side note: the Pope has fact checkers. Statements made by the Pope are typically vetted by the Vaticans' science arm to prevent embarassment.  In case you weren't aware. You can always say to the Pope, prove it, because he has a team of fact checkers.
Pope Leo is flat-out lying. Someone should ask him to cite his sources on his bullsh*t lack of faith claims.  He can't because there aren't any and he knows it and he's lying.
The Vatican, to their credit, published this study. If you read modern anthropology, you can learn that neighboring cultures are the best predictor for crime. This is just one many many scientific studies the Vatican itself has done, just like in Physics and the Big Bang.
That's right. Christian cultures have no more in common with other Christian cultures than non-Christian cultures. This is what is meant by no baseline. In fact, the discovered that the best predictor of crime was neighboring cultures.
So off they went. The Vatican collected crime statistics from all over the globe and compiled them. Guess what? You know what I'm going to say. But there is a twist. The twist is they couldn't establish a baseline. A baseline is a common characterization.
How? A scientific study was to be conducted. The first study would be to simply study crime statistics. Thou shall not steal should result in Christian cultures having less theft. Thou shall mot kill, less murder.
In the 1950s, the Vatican was desperate to get the egg off their face from cooperating with the Nazis. One of their Cardinals hit upon the idea to prove once and for all that Christian societies were more moral societies.
...the Vatican conducts extensive social research and I've read some of it. Quite good, actually. The Pope is 100%, knows the truth, lying.
This is 100% anti-science, BTW. In designing Irreni Wotld Scale I've been researching society. Decades of published research on the breakdown of society exists. Nothing Pope Leo says here is true or based in fact. He's lying. You can be confident he's lying because, la tee da, the Vatican...
The Pope has always been political. Scapegoating is hatemongering, and hatemongering is right-wing MAGA crap. This Pope is on the record as scapegoaying/anti-LGBT+. So how about a bit of cynicism prediction:  Popecoin. Nothing says dogewhistle like a memecoin.
I agree with Audacity about scapegoating atheists when perverted Christianity is a root cause. However, there is more than a little chance this is about other heretics: Muslim, Hindu, etc. This could even be a shot across the bow of Protestants.
"A lack of faith is often tragically accompanied by the loss of meaning in life, the neglect of mercy, appalling violations of human dignity, the crisis of the family and so many other wounds that afflict our society." - Pope Leo

Great, an atheist bigot.
Forecast is sunny tomorrow though. Take 100 photos and use those from now on. Ha!
----------------------------------------
2025-05-10
----------------------------------------

Did JD Vance buy an American Popeon on behalf of the American gov? That's a legit question. Francis was in poor health. The new Pope doesn't need to be MAGA for his detractors to claim MAGA by association. Piss poor time to pick an American politically, unless it was ulterior.
Immigration. The immigrants coming into the US means more money by donations to the Catholic  church. If you don't think the Catholic church isn't about the money then you don't know the indulgent history. Follow the money. That's the new Pope, same as the old Pope, same as it ever was.
Immigration. The new Pope isn't woke. If those immigrants were Muslim, Hindus, or any religion other than Christian then the Vatican's immigrant protests would be as little and generic as they are for the Muslim immigrants in Europe.
Immigration. Did the Catholic Church ever pay reparations or apologize in any action? No. Empty apology. Today they are rightfully condemning the US treatment of immigrants. However, they leave out the part that they only do so because these immigrants are Catholic.
Immigration. 2000, Jubilee, the Vatican apologizes for its horrific treatment of indigenous people in South America, especially kidnapping kids into schools of rape, torture and killing. Eventually all of South and Central America become quasi-Catholic governments.
I'm an engagement art appreciator. The more a piece of art sparks my imagination and invites me in to add things and play around, the more I appreciate it. Art is imagination sparks.



that wall is an invitation for some graffiti.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-09
----------------------------------------


Slight nit-pick. There were 11 days where nobody was reported to be killed at the hands of police. Police are so evil, so wicked, so vile, so depraved that they refuse to self-report on their killings.
And?
sarcasm pope
Out of the frying pan into the quicksand.
Trading climate change for bitcoin change is short-sighted. In a Capitalist society it makes sense. Ditch capitalism and join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
For better ad placement? Seriously, just remove SEO from results, and results would improve 1000%. Google search is clogged with so much keyword buying that it's nigh impossible to get anything meaningful. AI will only compound the problem.
Whaaa, Useless Collins gets let off the hook again? I don't know what the supposed $535 billion in earmarks she bragged about was for, but  obviously not for healthcare.
Of course.
I forget which black author I first read where the repercussions of slavery was accepting normalizing treating humans horrifically. MAGA dehumanizes woman, gays, Trans, immigrants and blacks such that they have no empathy remaining at all. Human shells.
"Will Republican senator Susan Collins stay on the sidelines or take on Trump?"

When I took my one writing class in college I was instructed not to write a banal thesis like "will paint dry" or "will Useless Collins be useful".
----------------------------------------
2025-05-08
----------------------------------------

All cops are bad. I was barely financially making it during my 20s and lived next to drug dealers in a very low rent, converted motel apartment. What I found interesting is that if anyone called the cops then the neighbors would chastise them. Cops are not your friends.
Tariffs and DOGE cuts are just euphemisms for austerity. Austerity is just a fancy word that means the rich robbing everyone else
Also, lowering wages, especially for programmers.
Exactly. Thus mesh society to replace hierarchy society.  Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
Color color and more color mine.
Ooooooooh

"Do I want to go bowling?"
Rent free.
Yeah Raygun sucks.
If that hat doesn't exist the dress must miss fit.
What I think about when I hear, "living rent free in their head."
It's all about the hats.  

Just a reminder about the algorithms. Follow hats and they will follow you back. Okay, that should be beauty but come on.
Information Wars

Raise shields by joining an MGO today!
Irreni.social
Should a put a warning, UAN, or Up All Night after this energy, hooooo aaaaah!
Good night...for some K-Pop for me is J-Funk:
www.youtube.com/watch?v=lHtZ...

Just image manipulation fun from long ago.
The US died in 1980 when Reagan started a forever pattern of Republicans cheating to win elections. That's when Irreni started. People will still believe the US is the US even after there is no voting. I'm not self-righteous about that, just persistent in opening peoples minds. Join an MGO!
Twain quipped that loyalty to a petrified opinion never broke a chain or freed a human. I'm thinking he missed an opportunity to further rebuff by including self-righteousness. Self-righteousness or loyalty to a petrified opinion never broke a chain. We are all just folk now.
And Maine's healthcare system continues to fall apart.
Voting is the least you can do. And it shows.

Join an MGO, today!
----------------------------------------
2025-05-07
----------------------------------------

You found out before I did. By about 3 minutes. lol
So the silly $5k for baby fee doesn't begin to cover the cost of the $10-$30k of hospitalization for having a baby. The $1k self-deportation fee most certainly doesn't cover the cost of the coyote. All just BS.
Why doesn't this exist already?
1. Quality of sequencing is still improving.
2. Medical = money = human = regulations.
3. Secondary analysis in multiomics is emerging.
4. Metagenomics like with  TWIST needs baselines/references.
There is a solution to GIGO: expert systems. I wrote one for synthetic DNA construction. The training is on expert answers. Garbage is a much better word than hallucination. Reflects the indiscriminate input used for training.
AI is just untested software. It is the euphemism "move fast and break things" for untested software in social media companies into all markets. AI has long had another name, GIGO. Garbage in, garbage out.
Goldfish

White page versatility
Love the hats of that period. If that interests you then you should watch, "The Murdoch Mysteries" on Acorn. So many beautiful hats.
Bluesky'ish
I was made for loving you, with this Spanish trumpet solo. Who else is going to tell you they love you on here? Enh? In the style of a Spaghetti Western: Staccato snare, a Bolero calling. Classic Western movie climax, the shoot out. mmmm, can I say that here? :) 
#music #winamp
vimeo.com/1042564412
Good night...for some breathy sax. To gently caress your mind to sleep...and hug your dreams of mystery.
vimeo.com/1042836559
In case you are not familiar:
1. Vimeo is ad free
2. All my videos are available for free download.
New user night I guess. Only happy people can make happy. So here is some happy for you! We also provide solutions in addition to discussing problems. Enjoy those too! And all the art I repost!  #winamp #music
vimeo.com/1081704046
----------------------------------------
2025-05-06
----------------------------------------

George W Bush still holds the honor of most disgraceful.
who is this we? 

Come on mon. The Democrats lost to the dumbest MF on Earth. The Democrats. The Ds should be annihilated and obliterated as a party. If they can't beat someone that dumb they  don't deserve to exist as a party.
Exactly. Hierarchy has to go. Mesh society is needed. Join an MGO today. 
Irreni.social
And pollution. We literally exported garbage and e-waste. The air pollution in China was horrendous when I was there. Bring back that manufacturing and the cheap prices go way because of both wages and environmental costs.
Neither does association. Guilt by association is no less evil than the sins of the father. Al Gore had it right after 9/11. Go after the perpetrators not declare war on terrorism groups. Belonging to a gang is not a crime. Guilt by association is evil.
Where skies are blue...happy star wars day!
----------------------------------------
2025-05-05
----------------------------------------

We are in an information war. Either we destroy them, i.e. Fox News, AM Hate Radio, Conservative Social Media, or they are going to destroy us.
Also all the Jedi end up getting slaughtered. So there's that.
And YouTube, btw. YouTube is exploiting people like Gina to make money off of mental deficiencies appearing amusing because they are different. YouTube and Alphabet doesn't give a crap about exploiting people, just money.
Mental problems are no joke. We ignore mental health at our own peril. These are some of most vulnerable people being exploited by the likes of QAnon, MAGA, and Trump.
QAnon and 4Chan are not one offs. They are run of the mill. Below is post a one woman's YouTube channel with 50 million views and 174k subs. There is obviously a mental health aspect to Gina's conspiracies. Not funny but displays a  significant of the MAGA mind.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=VroC...
This is why you should join an MGO! Today! 
irreni.social
How cynical should you be in this moment? Well, as an expert in cynicism, allow me. The racist who yelled the N word at an autistic child and then threatened to beat him up, and further has raised $500,000 for doing so will replace Pete Hegseth. She owned the libs & made money while being racist.
You can't save a system that doesn't want to be saved because it is working perfectly, for them.  Denial is not your friend.
The point of a cynic like myself is not to predict the future per se. But rather to get people to look in the right direction. Which is mesh society. Join an MGO today! I mean our current political system is on a highway to h***, and not the AC/DC band, bi-sexual kind.
A comedian made a joke in the late 90s that the empty-headed Rs would dig up Rayguns corpse, prop up the body and run it for President. Turns out that wasn't a joke. We can look forward to AI Trump after he's gone.
Mark my words. As Rs in DC succeed in burning down this country then  all the rats in DC are going to flee. They are going to change voting in tje House and Senate to 100% remote and then live outside  of the country.
AOC is arguably the most corrupt politician in DC. She was a bartender with a McJob and now has a $1 million apt.  In Manhattan. We should dispense with the myth that only taking small donations makes for less corruption. I'd argue it does the opposite, gives large corruption cover.
The Ds don't need your donations. They just need your buy-in to vote for them. The billionaires give them ten times over enough corruption money to win elections.
This was the Nancy Pelosi strategy of running against Bush in 2006 and it has been the strategy ever since. Ds don't have a platform, they just wait until people are tired of Rs. They are think nothing and do nothing.
Dare say it, it's too easy. Peanuts! Oh well, there I said it. Never forget peanuts!
Maine single handedly making climate change about wet over heat.
If you are thinking to yourself that micro-cultures of the MGO could destroy religion, patriarchy,capitalism, and all mass programming institutions that exist today then the answer is YES. If you want control in the face of billions of people in a society called Earth? Join an MGO. This minute.
Just remember I have all the solutions and join an MGO.  Today!
Irreni.social
When I talk to people about Irreni it is usually at this point people express concerns about the dark side of tribalism. Irreni solves this too. Irreni is a managed mesh. Management has only one power over otherwise sovereign MGOs.  Membership. MGOs that turn evil can have 1-30 members removed.
Each MGO has a charter, a constitution that all 30 members create, live by, and update. Your vote amongst 30 is important. You are important. You matter. You control your life by controlling your primary programming, your primary culture.
We are programmed. We call that programming culture. Mass culture is mass programming. Destructive. Irreni eliminates mass culture by mandating a fixed size MGO size of 30 people. This is your primary culture.
We can and should destroy Alphabet immediately. This is only a temporary solution. An MGO with an AI router and cold network is a general purpose permanent solution. Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
The cold network has a cold AI also disconnected from the hot network. Information subscribed too on the hot network is downloaded daily and hung out to dry, like slabs of beef. The hanging period is 24-72 hours. The cold AI takes that time to sanitize  information and remove all mass programming.
Read about mesh society on the web site. Itreni manages information in many ways. Two such ways are AI routers that defend against mass programming and hackers, and another is the cold network. The cold network is disconnected from the Internet, the hot network.
This is the information age, and you are both casualty and warrior if you so choose. If not, you'll just be a casualty, a victim. Have courage. Join an MGO.
We should destroy Alphabet. They have been 100% weaponizing information against the betterment of society with its algorithms. We start with Alphabet and give warning to all other bad algo companies that we are coming for them if they don't change their algorithms. End click-bait now
We need to ban advertising. It ads no value to humanity whatsoever. Nothing. Our world is currently cobbled to capitalism, so banning capitalism outright is calamatous. We can start dismantling capitalism, though, and banning advertising is a good start.
If climate change and cheap, easy people programming seems daunting to you then you can relax. I have all the solutions. All of this has been considered in Irreni. Join an MGO today. Refocus attention on 30 people yet scaling human projects to the entire Earth's population. 
Irreni.social
We are going to un-species ourselves if we just treat the moment with historical thinking. We've enslaved our mentality with  past thinking. We aren't going to past-think solutions to climate change or people being as easy to program like and with computers. Have courage.
The biggest threat to humanity today is we need to adapt at a pace much faster than evolutionary speeds. This true of climate change and people programming with cheap, mass information. We new to recognize new and novel problems immediately and respond.
Verner Vinge's warning in "Rainbow's End" is that  humans will self-extent if we don't get mass human programming under control because, surprise, it is easier to destroy than to build. We are all being mass programmed. The challenge put to us by Verner Venge is will we control people programs.
People programming is malicious and out of control. We must meet the new problems of our times without the handcuffs of the dogma and doctrine of pre-Internet times. Banning mass programming is anti-violence. Love is one  person to another. Hate is mass produced.
Banning people programming is preferred to mental enslavement by programming MAGA. We don't have a manhood problem, we have a malicious mental programming problem. This is the information age, not the printing press age.
The right to free speech must end. It needs to be replaced with a right to be free of deliberate programming, especially ads and hate speech. We need to annihilate hate programming. Ban Fox News. Ban AM hate radio. Ban hate social media.
In the early 2000s Verner Vinge released a book called, "Rainbows End". The foundation of the book is that people are programmable the same as computers. The antagonist found a way to kill people instantly with information. We are programmed, even if the modality is different.
A feed back loop means if culture establishes two dads and 100 moms should raise kids the over hundreds of years life adapts and studies will show two dads and 100 moms are needed to raise kids. This feedback loop means culture in many ways what we wish for desire.
Two observations on nature vs nurture. First there are very few human behaviors such as smiling that are universal. That's your goto fact when encountering human nature  claims in the wild. Second, culture is a feedback loop and this muddies the waters.
For some reason I'm seeing quite a few posts on manhood today. First manhood is hokum that predates education and deserves no respect the same as superstition. Second, nature versus nature has literally decades of research. Get educated on it if you feel like weighing in.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-04
----------------------------------------

I remember back in the late 90s when whitehouse.com was the controversy because it was porn. Feels quaint now. Oh well. As the official Pat Poulson Presidential campaign slogan went, "We've upped our standards, now up yours!"
The only difference between Ds and Rs is that Ds want a country they can live in and the Rs want to burn it all down. Rational vs Irrational tyranny.
Racist in Minnesota yells the N word at a five-year-old on a play ground. Posts the video taken of her on a go fund me and raises $400k. America.

youtu.be/BOL7ml7lQzY?...
I'm not against AI like I'm not against hammers. But I'm against stealing IP. AI does enable production  by a single person that formally was only possible by groups. It's brutal because the AI tool has become weaponized when it shouldn't have been.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=YBEE...
The pathology of the US is they want to pay people to have babies, presumably something significant like 10 million, but are paying billions of tax dollars to deport 10 million who do work that otherwise wouldn't get done. 

Given any one crossing our border a work visa and eventually citizenship.

Don't limit your thinking is something we all should hold dear as a value. Unfortunately, limiting is human nature, and free-thinkers like myself are needed. You can choose to unchain your mind like Bob Marley. Unchain your imagination and at least read about mesh society at irreni.social
For example, the original constitution says a new rep for every 10,000 people. Today they rep 700,000 people. That's crazy. If we had stayed at 10k then we'd have 70 x 435 reps = 10k is too many reps or crazy. Rep gov doesn't scale. So mesh was invented.
We've chained our minds in a prison of thinking only in ancient terms of gov thinking. Even communism is ancient in Internet years. Why ensave ourselves? Anyone alive today can invent a new gov  better than anything prior just because we are starting with billions of people to consider.
The absurdity of governing today is using only social engineering from before the 20th Century while technology inventions happen daily. Mesh was invented starting in 1980 and is still rapidly changing to meet the new technological changes.
The future is mesh society. Billions of people can't get on the same page of any idealogy. Idealogy doesn't scale. What we need are projects that scale from local to global with hundreds and thousands runnig in parallel.
Innovation replaces revolution, engineering not idealogy is the name Irreni. It has no manifesto or book of idealogy. We don't need idealogy. Ideas, like Lego pieces, can be grouped as needed and regrouped perpetually. Static idea groupings is for the weak minded, like religion.
Our public, political,  discourse well of organization types has been poisoned. We've been gaslit to only think a handful of possibilities exist where infinite exists. What, inventing new gov types stopped at communism? Hardly. Mesh is different from all historical types of gov.
Mesh society project contracts have all the features gov constitutions lack today l.
1. Renewed every five years.
2. Focus.
3. Hundreds or thousands active at once.
4. Real experiments easily tossed away or improved on constant renewal.
Think of mesh society as Legos. The pieces snap together to make one thing and are easily broken apart to make another part. Mesh nodes are fixed sized and self-contained. They cooperate through project contracts with a max 5 year  time span  before requiring renewal and rewriting.
When I say hierarchy doesn't scale, I don't mean it can't scale as authoritarian. I mean it doesn't scale without tyranny and oppression. If we want to control our lives we need to move beyond any kind of hierarchy to mesh society.
I really like Joss Whedons prediction on this race. The Chinese and US gov will combine to form a new gov called the Alliance. By like, I only mean seams likely given reality. The Alliance will be an unstoppable large gov.
We are at a crossroads. China has a corrupt authoritarian gov that is softening and looking better. It governs a billion people. The US has 400  million and is crumbling by hardening authoritarianism. In some sense it is a race of which is better at large pop government.
How does a US rep rep the absurdity of no common ground? Today 39% of the electorate is nonreligious. Yet that has no representation at all. It's not Democracy if no rep. More fire fuel? Corruption and doing oligarchy bidding at least has semblance of order and purpose.
Democracy doesn't scale because hierarchy doesn't scale. Any US rep today represents 700,000 people. On virtually every issue, there will be many opinions. There is no common ethos to represent. To whit, everything cancels out.
What is valuable with protesting and resisting is socializing and solidarity. Do it. I'm thinking about starting a video channel called "After Democracy." We need to educate people on why Democracy has run its course and can take us no further.
I 100% support everything this account promotes. I live in Maine. Sadly, democracy can not be saved. The gov is too corrupt. However, what we can do is shape the evolving replacement. We do not want fascist authoritarianism. A soft oligarchy is better.
This is the plot of the movie, "The Matrix". It is ironic that being red-pilled means grasping the Universe as it is in the movie, but in reality being red-pilled as applied to MAGA literally means yearning for delusion.
Seriously, Seattle, you can take your weather back any day now. :)
When I was a kid I didn't know what a bayou was. I thought it meant by you. Sitting on a summer river bank with blue sky and water is what I imagined whenever I heard Linda sing Blue Bayou.
It would be interesting to poll Catholics about which is more offensive: 
1.  Sinéad O'Connor ripped up a picture of the Pope on national TV in protest of the cruelty to children by Catholic schools.
2. T cosplaying as the Pope because the cruelty is the point.
The cruelty is the point. There is no crueler institution than the millenia long history of the Catholic Church. T cos playing as pope is on brand. No distance between best friend Epstein and the Vatican. The Catholics have no self-awareness and clutching pearls about T is also on brand.

A story yesterday indicated that only about 1/4 of Mainers flying have RealID to fly. Given all the chaos it is understandable this story isn't bigger but if people aren't flying then internal tourism is going to drop next month.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-03
----------------------------------------

Personally I think if the Supreme Court rules public money can go to church schools to teach Jesus then this will have many repercussions. Like say, driving up home schooling. Home schooling via online schools. This isn't the 19th century. The Christian nationalists are naive and Utopian.
No, I think once they try and start teaching Catholic dogma to Protestants, Methodist doctrine to Pentecostals, and so on I think they will quickly realize there is no common Jesus denominator and fade away.
As a romantic notion I'm on board with the religious killing each other in religious wars like during the dark ages, fighting over the religious state. One can dream of no religion. But, the reality is they will take us all down with them. However, I don't think it will come to that.
I'm not worried about paying for religious school. Mainly because the various Christian denominations don't agree  and will definitely fight over teaching. Jefferson "Wall of Separation" letter replied to Danbury, Conn., Baptist Association regarding, check notes, other Baptists.
Slow art day. From the archives....

----------------------------------------
2025-05-02
----------------------------------------

"Dear fellow Christians, when experiencing opposition and condemnation- don’t rush to assume it’s Satan...And does my point actually align with what Jesus taught?"

If Christians did that, then Christianity wouldn't exist. See Martin Luther.


No one in DC is on your side. Education, healthcare, upward mobility, and on-and-on. All being destroyed. We simply have to admit reality: depend less on DC. Do for ourselves. Rugged individualism was always stupid. Join a self-sufficenit mesh node within a mesh. 
Irreni.social
For example. Every year hundreds of rural hospitals are closing and have been for years. Neither party puts that front and center. New retirees looking to move rural to lower costs are faced with a lack of hospitals delimma. DC is destroying American lives. Opiod epidemic? 100,000 dead/year. Silence
We are well beyond the lesser of two evils. We are at the lesser of the worst kind of evil. I don't think we can fault people for not distinguishing. DC is hell-bent on destroying Americans. Being in denial because you need to believe one of the sides has good faith defines American politics today.
Is T making things worse for his voters? Sure. But will Ds fix things when back in office? No. Price gouging happened during the pandemic. Did prices go back to pre-pandemic levels under Biden? No? The Ds has a news cycle for price gouging and dropped it.
Which is worse: T and Rs missing good faith or Ds? You all supporting Ds are in denial that T won because more people voted T and Rs to answer that. It must be hell to be told sit down and shut up when you are worse off while  the stock market and economy are the best ever.
"Suppose you were an idiot, and suppose you were a member of Congress; but I repeat myself.“ -Mark Twain 

Idiots are not what's new in DC. What's new is what's missing: good faith. The good faith to implement the ideals of the law.  Without that the law is just so much paper.
The price of eggs was just people voting their wallets. All of these stupid people posting about the best economy ever under Biden are mocking millions upon millions of these voters worse off with the "rich got richer" stock market records. Totally out of touch.
The letter of the law cannot survive a broken spirit.

f a constitutional amendment fixing our government were passed today it would be received exactly the same as if an entirely new constitution were written: without spirit.
Be For, Not After

I like lip biting because it is an inside question. Self awareness. Something rarely on display today.
My first irrenit.social meme for 2025.

Attention on different people every day in the news doesn't help them or 400 million you's. Join an MGO, focus attention on the same thirty people every day. Help them help you.
Happy people find solutions. Mesh society is you foremost providing for a mesh node of 30 people, a survival unit with a year's supply of survival goods. DC is pandering with universal healthcare that's impossible to deliver in a corrupt system. They know it. Be happy. Join an MGO.
irreni.social
My granddad was a made man for Capone. My dad was too much a loser. The only lesson that loser taught me was all cops are bad, the  biggest gang. You have to pay them protection. He always had stickers for Fraternal Order of Police/Firefighters on his cars. Something to consider in these times.
----------------------------------------
2025-05-01
----------------------------------------


They're eating the dogs, they're eating the cats. T got punked by his own VP, embarrassed on national TV. Did they still vote for him over the other old guy who they claimed needed to be replaced because he was feeblemind? Yes they did. It's his base that's the problem.
Happy Wednesday! Here's a question for ya, what's the replacement for hierarchy society? Answer: mesh society. Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
Misspelled Maine. It certainly has felt like Seattle since it got above freezing.
So I popped in on conservative news:
1. No coverage of Canadian Elections
2. Top story was legacy media blurring faces of people pictures on Whitehouse lawn.
Duh, the T folks lie all the time and everyday ICE grabs innocent people.
Now for your hour of Zen. 

Music is happiness happy. I hope you are happy. 

irreni.social/wp-content/u...
Self framing.
"The pace of technological advancement today is such that we have guided missiles and misguided men." -Martin Luther King Jr.

If want to solve this problem rather than just lament it, then join an MGO. today.

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-04-30
----------------------------------------

And for the nerds...Laser Pope!

www.youtube.com/watch?v=H5gm...
Deciding where for lunch...

I'll say it again. Rubio is claiming to respect the rights of the mother when during Trump's first term they separated children from parents without docs such that the parents could not be found and the children were orphaned. The cruelty is the point. They enjoy cruelty.
Kissme filter.
The letter is a nice touch. Storm winds a blowing the ocean and curtains, letter is balanced on edge.


This whole take it down act reeks of retraumatizing  rape victims by rape victims having to prove it in court. Thus exposing themselves to further trauma. How is this law going to work on foreign servers? Hey, Russia, take it down.
Does Congress even realize social media companies like Facebook claim the copyright the minute you upload as part of their terms of service? They own it.
So, what happens when AI vacuums up revenge porn images and identifies people in reverse nude image search based on nude body parts. Like a big mole.
I did an experiment once and sent a cease and desist request to YouTube. They never got back to me. But every music label can strike you in a heartbeat.
The problem with the stupid take down act is only rich can hire lawyers. Otherwise companies will just ignore you. To whit, this is just a short-cut for Trump to claim libel and defamation and force media companies to take his nude statue photos, etc.
Suggestions for a meaningful Take Down Act.
1. RFK Jr's Autism doxxing site.
2. Any AI that trained by violating copyright.
3. DOGE
4. Trump
5. Congress Insider Trading
6. Citizens United.
7. Gerrymandering
"How To Do Nothing", a book by Congress

Pass laws covered by existing laws. Everything in this law is already illegal. Revenge porn is illegal. Child porn is illegal. But hey, Congress has a job to do,  gaslight people. The fact that it is generated by AI is moot.
"Stop saying “democrats are failing” because that includes AOC, Frost, Crockett, Booker etc - and they’re NOT failing. Name the people failing you, and don’t let them drag the whole party down with them."

No.  The whole party dragged  themselves down. I'm with the Illinois governor.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-29
----------------------------------------

Indiana where I was born has gone of the deep end.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=GX6X...
It's not just that  low T didn't attend funerals for soldiers, but that he did attend a funeral for Pope. Shows you where his loyalties lie.
Mine just cleared last week. Didn't seem to take so long last year?
Capitalism, noun: 1. a system of business laws that the wealthy can game, 2. see corruption.
Love the handle. 

If one just judges by their actions they all fail, everyone in the House and Senate. Feckless cowards all. I was signed up for Booker and immediately after his filibuster I got a donate email. 

Politicians are always in campaign mode raising money. Jefferies and Booker included.
The Trump administration separated immigrant children from their parents without documentation resulting in children  who could not be reunited. Now they want you to believe the toddler trafficking was them respecting the rights of the deported moms. Sounds legit.
Interesting:
www.youtube.com/watch?v=geHC...
----------------------------------------
2025-04-28
----------------------------------------

What risk has any Democratic politician in DC taken dealing with Trump.

That's a period, not a question. A question would imply there is an answer.
Our politicians are willing to send soldiers to die for this country for an 18 year war that didn't accomplish anything but aren't willing to die themselves for their country when faced with an authoritarian. That's the problem. They don't believe in the country, they just want you too.
No one in Democratic leadership is willing to take any personal risk. Neither is Trump or the Republicans. They want us to take the fall, die, or otherwise realize any losses on their behalf. Feckless cowards all.
Cory Booker is doing a sit in versus Trump arresting judges are two sides to the same provoking coin. The coin they are hoping to mint is to provoke the public to act out. Trump wants BLM protests 2.0 so he can declare martial law. The Dems want  the same so Trump will overstep and get removed.
Two essays today. I must be feeling energized after having been laid of by Illumina. 
Competition leads to hate. Competition is synonymous with greed and hierarchy. This is the fundamental flaw of capitalism. 
irreni.social/competition-...
I think about this often with Bluesky. How long before Bluesky offers monetization via ads, etc? People karma farm on Reddit by posting the same image. Which is why I quit visiting Reddit for art. I view most original content as portfolio presentation, kinda liked Linkedin resumes. Watermark stuff.
Same as it ever was. Pure theater.
When I was growing up, "Pick on somebody your own size." was a common expression. Picking on the weak is cowardly, pathetic, and craven. Thus it is with the US government picking on helpless four-year-olds with cancer.
Human trafficking underage US citizens is on brand for a life-long friend of Jeffery Epstein's. However, I don't think even Epstein trafficked four-year-old kids with cancer.
We should shutdown completely AM Hate radio, Fox News, and conservative social media sites. Either we have the courage to do this or we will fail. Let them start anew without the hate. The minute they start the hate selling then fine them.
Our MAGA problem is an information age problem. Yes, propaganda, persecution complexes, etc. have been around. However, the information age gives the hatred new levels of anti-social behavior. We need to destroy MAGA and use those words. 

irreni.social/merchants-of...
Know your enemy.
The capitalists of hate will not relent but will sacrifice the entirety of humanity to maintain hate's cheap power. This means war is coming. Know your enemy.
We must not let adherence to past dogmas of different printing press information speed  be our undoing, which is what's happening today. We must have the courage to abolish hate programming, or it will abolish us.
Sex sells with very low information rates. Hate sells even better but requires constant, daily refreshing high rate. The information age makes this cost trivial. The concept of free speech is the state not imprisoning people for speech. This was conceived in another age.
The challenge before this generation that no other had to consider is information age specific. Information is so cheap and easy to mass produce that hate programming the masses is trivial. It is our responsibility to stop it.
Small nitpick: re-educate. Even before I learned computer programming existed, I could see people being programmed in church. Indoctrination perhaps is a better word because people programming requires constant repetition. Especially hate.
I was under this same impression until I took a history class and learned 99% of Native Americans died due to lack of immunity to European diseases like small pox. Given the anti-vax movement today then I'd say karma is playing out.
I saw Sinners on word of mouth advertising. I didn't see any of the Oscar award/Golden Globes contenders  based on any advertising. There is a statement about the 21st Century in there somewhere. Something like we give you your opinion isn't working for some reason.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me. Fool me for two decades every single day, and I am shame proof. I can't be shamed. It doesn't have to be this way. You can lead. Join mesh society. Join an MGO today! 
Irreni.social
World leadership doesn't exist. This is the history of the 21st C. Starting with the dot com bubble and every following real-estate/financial bubble leadership has failed. Credit card debt? Student loans? Al Gore in 2001 warning about climate change. Crypto scams?
The end game of capitalism is a snake eating its own tail. Capitalism wants no labor, everything fully automated. No paid workers means no consumers.
In 1990, yes 1990, Fortune magazine ran an investigative journalism piece on the Fortune 500 paying taxes. Guess what they found? Corporations  were paying more in tax attorney salaries than in taxes. These traitors would rather pay attorneys than taxes.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-27
----------------------------------------

Christian, noun: 1. A person who condemns non-Christians to eternal torture and expresses icreduality at not being liked, actively hated, and their religion condemned. 

Christian privelege, smugness and lack of self awareness doesn't scratch the surface of the depth of that arrogance.
Nothing makes clear the emotional manipulation religion depends on like missing the necessary brain levers due brain misconfiguration. There is no bigger lie in religion than we are all the brain same starting with a blank slate able to follow universal rules.
Free will doesn't exist. I didn't fall victim to religion because of some merit or deep thinking. I rejected religion as a child. No. Dysfunction brought me here. Mom drank and did drugs during pregnancy. I just wasn't emotionally available, let alone vulnerable.
Religion gaslights people into believing a facade that never existed. On the rare occasion the followers do become aware of the facade, soup kitchens.
Perversion, noun: church donations are charity yet less than 1% of donations is used to help others.
"It is cowardly, it is evil, and it is deeply, deeply unchristian to scapegoat the vulnerable."

One can only sincerely say this if one is in deep denial or ignorant of all of Christian history. Racism is  slavery legacy.
Religion is hierarchy. It is the privileged abusing the masses. We cannot abolish religion but we can abolish hierarchy. We must switch to mesh society design of only horizontal organizations. Join an MGO today. It won't prevent humans abusing each other but does mitigate a root cause.
Irreni.social
Abolishing religion is not feasible for these traits because:
1. It is only one of many
2. It falsely represents itself
3. Religion costs nothing and starting another has infinite derivatives.
Religion is in its basic form  a grift on the emotionally vulnerable, easily manipulated. Milions of other such gifts exist. In its most sophisticated religion  props up State evil giving moral cover in a power exchange. Again, the rich do this in other fashions as well.
I claim to be  anti-theist, but counter-theist is better for two reasons:

1. Religion shouldn't get a pass for public propaganda as being a norm. The tiny number of people I reach is a small counterweight to that.
2. I don't promote abolishing religion, join any such organizations, etc.
Thanks. I forgot about heretic being the more general form of witch. Didn't know that about outlaw.
The hypocrisy of western culture is to demand in public respect for religion that has abused in unimaginable numbers, kids, women, and LGBTQ+ for millenia. Just the  forced Catholic schools for indigenous kids where mass graves found forever disqualifies them from any respect. At all.
Not speaking ill of the dead is a dysfunctional tradition that needs to be abolished. It provides cover for the living who enabled, condoned or participated in the ill.  Society needs to grow up. The Catholic church is rotten to the core and it is impossible to lead it and be anything else.
Let's talk shame. Hitchens was asked why he insisted on shaming religion...just stick to the arguments. The reply: I refuse to unilaterally disarm. The church perfected shaming and does so successfully  every day in your face & in public. The Pope doesn't get a pass because he said some nice things.
Useless Collins.
Or religious category of heathen. Religion perfected othering. Only religious othering will kill you five countries over from yours  for, checks notes, drawing a cartoon.
Definitely the Maine mood since the snow melted.
So I guess we've officially reached the "Trump'ed up" charges, especially against the judges, stage of this fascism. They aren't winning in courts so  Trumping up charges was an inevitable outcome. Meh. Seriously banal.
Category fallacy: not believing in a concept confers no information. This means non-believers cannot be a group. Pro-tip: most people in the public square railing against religion  are anti-theists. Even so, anti thesis have no common doctrine even if a common emotional reiligios trauma.

World Penguin day! April 26th!
----------------------------------------
2025-04-26
----------------------------------------


Illumina is betting on turnkey, e2e software in  multiomics for growth. IBM went through a mainframe crisis and landed on being a service company.  Given how complicated these solutions are I conclude they should do the IBM thing. Service in country us tariff proof.
I'm definitely anti-religion, but in general I'm anti-willful stupidity. You can't outlaw stupidity, best we can do is educate and shame stupidity. QANON is proof-positive new stupidity can be generated at the speed of Light.
Where is Useless Collins and her $535 million in earmarks? I like Gov Mills but her "nowhere to be found" actions on healthcare is disturbing.
auto level
----------------------------------------
2025-04-25
----------------------------------------

How anyone at this stage of the carnage can approve of Trump is beyond me. Like his first term with building the walk, there have been no mass deportations yet that is what "low T" supporters approve of. Fearmongering and fear fawning.

----------------------------------------
2025-04-24
----------------------------------------

Climate change will continue to destabilize poor nations. This was predicted in 2000 by the UN. We are Earth. We are one people if being human means anything. Earth Day  is one humanity day. How can it be otherwise? Join one humanity, join ab MGO mesh society.
Irreni.social
Earth Day. We are Earth. Yet we pretend like we are only nations. When we want. Other times we destroy our neighboring nations, not love them. The US accepts no accountability for immigrants. This is the R party, and their ideal Christian nation.
Reap what you sow is a lesson in the Bible. Yet Amerlica ignores this and blames the immigrant. We hire millions of immigrants for decades and attract them, now we blame them.  So destroy their govs, now we blame them for leaving.
Venezuela has suffered under economic sanctions for over a decade. This has fed into our immigration problems. Yet we take no responsibility and just blame the victims.  This is the character of a Chrstain nation.
Raygun destroyed Central American govs and we never rebuilt them. This has fed into our immigration problems. Yet we take no resposibilty and just blame the victims. This is the actions of a Christain nation.
Earth Day. We are Earth. Back in 2000 UN models predicted 1-3% of world population would be migratory by 2030. Immigration challenges will continue to escalate.
Happy World Penguin Day!

There is always an  "and?" at the end of these kind of posts. I'm always befuddled by the vacuum of solutions. Hierarchy has to go, is the "and?". A pyramid concentrates money and power on the one or few at the top. Hierarchy doesn't scale. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-04-23
----------------------------------------

It's Earth Day and the US Green Party is not known for being champions of Earth. We don't even have a Ralph Nadar exposing corporate evil. There is no opposition to MAGA except rice paper puppets. Puppets that blow with the winds of mob anger.
Kyle simping for AOC is just sad. She is not a serious person. The puddle in the Douglas Adams book is an apt metaphor. The muddled reflection is only an appearance of depth.
Jealous nation states hogging resources for petty squabbles can never act globally. We need mesh society today. Join an MGO today. 
Irreni.social
Considering recent news now seems as good a time to revise this:

"Man will never be free until the last king is strangled with the entrails of the last priest." - Denis Diderot

"Humans will never be free until the last rich person is asphyxiated with gas from the entrails of the last clergy." -me
----------------------------------------
2025-04-22
----------------------------------------

Why was JD Vance visiting the Pope? Because MAGA Catholics in the US have been lobbying the Vatican to be pro MAGA. With Francais  out of the way it will come down to one thing: money. Elon and the tech bros may provide it.
youtu.be/H5gmCbglp1M?...

Worthy of reposting since the Pope has died. No one claiming to be infallible exists.
Sinners had a resolution ending, even if it felt contrived and tacked on at the last minute. Black music always prevails. Good for Coogler.
Sinners. One other thing. I do think the movie was a deliberate tribute yo Spike Lee and black culture struggle in white culture, he tweaks Spikes nose at the end. Do The Right Thing had no resolution for an ending.
To me the movie was commentary that black culture can't even hold to its own nonsense, but gets overrun by white nonsense. Vampires. The move starts with black nonsense about music having the power to summon, but in the end even that gives way to nonsense Vampires. That's the horror.
Sinners. Great movie. Extremely well crafted. Eggcellent Easter fare. Not a horror person. I saw "Do The Right Thing". Black culture fighting white culture in a losing battle, even when it comes to nonsense. The film opens with white, nonsense, Church. Vampires are more white nonsense.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-21
----------------------------------------

Easter sermon: Lest one thinks that it is only "some" Christians, no church has paid millions  in restitution because of their Christian morality. The horrendous sexual & child abuse committed by clergy of every denomination is only held to account by secular courts, not some moral superiority.
To whit, the solutions are here. All anyone needs to do is have a sense of adventure and that courage to adopt them. Join an MGO today.
Irreni World Scale addresses as many of the systemic problems noted by people  as people as far back as Jefferson. It also scales to rapid tech pace change and is founded as high tech dependent. Irreni is designed requiring the Internet, as one example.
What is being bandied about in the public square is when after Humpty Dumpty falls then finding two pieces of broken shell and claiming success after only putting only two pieces together. They are not serious people.
Step back for a moment and think about what politicians and pundits are promoting these days. They are unserious. Repealing Citizens United does nothing to fix criming at light speed thst is making a mockery of Justice glacisl speed.
MGOs are survival units. This means no dependency on other govs. When MGOs come online, other govs they exist within slowly go offline or dissolve. That's what is needed in a global economy so as to responsibly replace, unlike destructive revolutions.
Having said that, any new social design will take generations of culture change because cultures change on an evolution pace. This is why Irreni is a side-by-side system that dissolves and not revolutionizes.
Eventually, if one flushes out all the historical systemic problems the US gov has had, then one lands on mesh society and some design like Irreni World Scale. 

We are not going to evolve/Amendment our way out of this. We need courage to break away and design from scratch.
Hierarchy concentrates power and money control at the top. Human rights meant to restrict hierarchy tyranny doesn't work because as Trump clearly demonstrates every day,  you can crime at the speed of Light. but justice crawls at the speed of glaciers.
The American Government is broken. Not just by corruption money. Not just by a legal system that is orders of magnitude too slow to meet jury trial due process. Democracy is unworkable because hierarchy is unworkable. Hierarchy is always tyranny.
No, Bernie and AOC can't be bothered to hire ghostwriters to formalize their ideas in books and set them free to be used without them. Because they are all about them and their egos and not fixing problems. Neither Ds or Rs would adopt their proposals. So what's the point?
One of the reasons for the disdain of people like Bernie and AOC is that they are just grandstanding. I mean, even if they were just propagandists like Thomas  Paine writing books like "The Age of Reason" or "The Rights of Man," then I'd be supportive.
The rule of law has to be done away with or be  minimized so as to not be a change inhibitor. This is why MGOs are fixed size 30 and the only sovereign entity in mesh society. Thirty people can rapidly change their legal system to match tech changes.
The design of the Constitution fails completely when faced with a rapid pace of social change due to high tech's rapid pace of change. Can a new design work? No. Because the very nature of law is precedence repeating, not rapid  change adaption.
Jefferdon's solution to a bogged down legal system due to many generations of compounding laws was to rewrite the Constitution every generation. This is equally unworkable. So what was the solution put into the Constition? Amendments. That expetiment has failed having had no effect.
Jefferson noted that the British legal system had become a bog of laws built upon generations of previous laws, bringing that legal system to a virtual standstill. He also noted that this also meant the dead were ruling the living.
The conservatives are correct that giving millions of immigrants due process doesn't  scale. This is exactly the same as 99% of felony convictions not receiving due process, but rather plea deals. American Democracy doesn't  scale. Irreni World Scale does. Join an MGO today!
This is Irreni World Scale. Irreni has two prime directives (ha ha): Everyone in and Life goes on. No more nations. No more hierarchy at all. Join an MGO!

irreni.social/two-prime-di...
This religious  privelge "so people can go to church" exists in Maine too. Let's have meaningful holidays,like one for all scientific drug discoveries that have saved billions of lives: penicillin, insulin, vaccines, etc. You know, reality.
Science fiction writers have long  noted since the advent of  Sci-fi that the avg IQ is less and less capable as high tech advances. Just a reminder, I have all the solutions. Join an MGO today!
Irreni.social
Corruption destroyed our politics. The financial success and riches from being the world super power overwhelmed our system of checks and balances.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-20
----------------------------------------

Everyone is my brother and sister. We are one humanity. Nations, religions, and so many other ideas divide us for the gain by whom? The hierarchy. Here's Christopher Hitchens summarizing thousands of years of atrocities by one hierarchy.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRsa...
9/11 was a religious endeavor. MAGA is a religious endeavor. We are fighting religion. Know your enemy.
I hate the fact that Easter is celebrated. Suicide by cop is nothing to venerate. It is pure cowardice. Living takes courage. Knowingly breaking a law with a death sentence to be crucified is a mental health problem, not a cause.
Know your enemy. Or you are just shadow boxing.
Lazy thinking: criticizing religion makes one an Islamophobe, anti-Semite, etc. Every so called "New Atheist" was condemned as being racist and religious bigots for criticizing ideas. Religion is the motherlode of bad ideas. Religious privilege is a pox on human existence.
Easter sermon: Today is another protest day, which I applaud. However, if you are not able to look religion in the eye and condemn as the root cause for anti-DEI, anti-LGBTQ+, anti-Woke, anti-Critical Race Theory, anti-Affirmative Action, etc. then you are not serious about stopping MAGA.
I've always been an outspoken anti-theist and atheist. As someone who was born mentally different, I stand with the LGBTQ+ minorities as surely as I am one. The driving force behind all the hatred heaped on the LGBTQ+ here in America is Christianity. Just Christianity. I fight against that bigotry.
Easter sermon: If you want to see the true meaning of Christianity, or any religion, be non-religious. Hate will follow shortly.
Easter sermon: Christian privilege is anyone who criticizes Christianity is to be shunned by all society. This privilege is still practiced in all Christian cultures. Christianity is about dominance, not love your neighbor, forgiveness or whatever BS they gaslight you with.
Easter sermon: Christianity has always been the worst of evil cultures. Just ask an gay person throughout Christianity's entire history. People such as myself were labeled demons or devils due to mental health. We were shunned and made into criminals. There is nothing good in Christianity, nothing.
Easter sermon: Divine Right of Kings (DRK) vs salvation (S). DRK =  Christianity blessed every atrocity known to man. Every wicked evil thing in reality. S is gas-lighting about imaginary rewards in imaginary afterlife. One is real. DRK defines Christianity world adoption, not S. MAGA's goal? DRK.
Well, do I have a deal for you, mesh society. No more  venerating the hierarchy top. Mesh society is a horizontal society of mesh nodes, all of size thirty. Join a mesh node, or MGO, today! 
irreni.social
Be like TJ and carry a pocket. "The Rights of Man" by Thomas Paine.
The inherent, immutable problem with hierarchy has been written about since before even Plato. The question is when will humanity say enough and ditch hierarchy and replace it with mesh society? Join an MGO!
Irreni.social

Just a reminder, I have all the solutions. After you 4/19 protests today take action and join an MGO! 
Irreni.social
Nuke incoming. Hopefully not Maine. "Oh sorry, just kidding, but your fault. Pay more in taxes if you to avoid accidental nuking."
You get a grade 8 for this.
Little known fact I rediscover every year because I grocery shop on Sunday: Easter is a State holiday in Maine and stores are closed. F! religion and their legal privilege. Just F all the way off. In Dave Allen spirit, good night and take out the trash god with you.
Lisa Murkowski and other Republicans think we are stupid and believe their "afraid" bs when AOC and Bernie are have multi-thousand person rallies. They are not afraid. They are owned by the oligarchs gas lighting us.
Peace Crossin
Peace Cup
----------------------------------------
2025-04-19
----------------------------------------

Unlawful imprisonment is not deportation.
I thought he was turned away initially. Something is off.
Peace Blending
----------------------------------------
2025-04-18
----------------------------------------

You may not know this but the US was to be universal as Thomas Paine and others believed Democracy matched human spirit. In the same spirit we need to move away from petty squabbles inherent in jealous hierarchies and move to Mesh society. Especially for climate change. Join an MGO!

irreni.social
And this article did not cover pollution required. Manufacturing requires tons of pollution. Just visit China.
Peace Plan. Just more fun with Peace from Wizards.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-17
----------------------------------------

Join mesh society, join an MGO today!
irreni.social
And there you have it. Absolutely nothing to do with fighting the oligarchy and everything to do with fame and fortune.  Oh, look, another narcissist.
Hierarchy doesn't scale to global management. Resource hogging and jealousy at the hierarchy top is systemic. We must move to mesh society. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Here's a much better use of zero gravity. A parry to Perry...

youtu.be/LWGJA9i18Co?...

Peace Out
Peace...

...from the movie Wizards. I like the juxtaposition.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-16
----------------------------------------

Correct. This is why we need to transition off of hierarchy to mesh society. Hierarchy concentrates resources and power of the few or one at the top. That will never work. Join an MGO today!
irreni.social
Is any body going to even mention this in gov? Mills? Whoever the new dude is running for gov? 
Useless Collins recently bragged about $535 million in "ear marks". F! that. How about $1 trillion for healthcare? Useless?
Just got a banner ad in Gmail. Oooof. I have a backup fastmail account. mmmmmm
The SAVE Act is a Federal law, however I thought States ran elections. I have yet to find reporting on whether this law has merit. Does it only apply to Fed votes, State votes are not subject?
Maine's healthcare is 48th of 50. Instead of fearmongering how about fixing healthcare.
It needs to be more than pullback and boycotts. We need economic sanctions from the EU and other countries for human rights violations. Freeze billionaire oversees accounts.
Just so we are all clear: 
1. 1980s, Raygun destroys Central American govs permanently.
2. CA countries become unlivable, and millions flee to the US.
3. We now pay CA gangster govs to take back those fleeing.

Evangelical Christianity.
Just remember, G W Bush manifested Gitmo as a non-habeas corpus prison for foreigners and Obama didn't shut it down.
To all the people who have appeased the bully, do you think the wife beater just beats his wife once? Bullies always prefer the easy targets.
Trump will simply pardon any contempt charges against his admin. He's immune. Here's the thing, this has always been possible, but only evil Trump will do it.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-15
----------------------------------------

The only thing that is stopping T is 1. the military oath to the constitution and 2. Republicans impeaching him. My guess is he will have private contractors fly airplanes of people he rounds up to El Salvador. Republicans will never impeach him.
Bluesky doesn't have a diversity of thinking problem. X is a bullying and trolling dumpster fire and the "right" can't think without trolling.
Okay, here's a joke. Has T returned the prisoner in El Salvador as per the Supreme Court?
Vimeo and chill? Lol. I posted this awhile back, but for all you new followers, I make Winamp videos with the Milkdrop visualization. 

Sunday Serenity with cool instrumental saxophone for you week end.
vimeo.com/1061473819
----------------------------------------
2025-04-14
----------------------------------------

They [Bernie and AOC]  aren't going to do s***, they aren't going to do s*** to fight oligarchy. They are going to use that energy that they get people excited &  hopeful about... & they are going to redirect that back into the oligarchy via the Democratic party. 
www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lngd...
Never expect unhappy people to provide happiness.

Claims asserted without evidence can be dismissed without evidence. Hitchens razor, anti-gas lighting 101.
The first two words are unnecessary.
Indefinite lifespans and genetically engineered humans to be the smartest is only a few hundred years away. After that, the hierarchy will be unassailable, impossible
to overthrow. A few hundred years is all we have to stop that. That's nothing in the course of human history. Join an MGO.
"To be nobody but yourself in a world which is doing its best, night and day, to make you everybody else - means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight; and never stop fighting." ee cummings

Being yourself in a group of thirty is a fight you can survive. A group of 346 million?
In mesh society the smallest unit as the only unit is the most powerful. The fixed size thirty is the integration limit. Mesh nodes as survival nodes with one-years supply of survival supplies can withdraw from projects and even mesh society with ease.
Hierarchy can never provide the benefit of small gov. The Feds as the large entity will always integrate to the infinite limit to nullify all smaller forms. Absolute power can do naught else.
The MGO is a survival, gov  like the starship Enterprise flying through space. Both part of a larger society benefiting from the best technology yet socially a space where self-imposed identity is maximum effort.   This is the social balance missing today, the benefit of both large and small gov.
Irreni World Scale provides maximum effort opportunity for self-imposed identity. An MGO is fixed size thirty people. This is where we spend 80-90% of our time in mesh society. The weight of 30 people, the force, is far less than 346 million.
This is why I embrace art. I  practice weird thinking even as a born free thinker. Either own your life or be owned. Either own your identity, or it will be imposed. Which will it be?
The hierarchy relies on us to be frozen to their edicts.  You have a choice be in a frozen intellectual comfort zone living in a dystopian, hellish society, or embrace the weird and imagine a different way. Practice weird thinking for the sake of weird thinking, resist frozen mentality.
Everyone needs to free frame in the information age. Born free-thinkers are less prone to intellectual comfort zones. We embrace the weird. You will need to practice. Imagine a ballot with 346 million people and consider how that would work rather than just dismissing it outright.
Free thinking is not just a religion thing. Free thinking is free framing. Taking the frames of society and rejecting them. Sure, it often starts with rejecting the good/evil binary framing of religion and injecting nuance. But free framing applies to everything.
We have the technology to put all 346 million Americans on a ballot, cast corresponding ballots, and elect the most vote getter for all Federal, State, and Local officials. Or choose from two. One of these is more absurd.
Now is not that time of impossible-to-remove hierarchy. We must act now to ensure that Dune never happens. We must implement mesh society. Now. Today. Don't be frozen by gas lighting. Join an MGO this very second. 
irreni.social
The point of the books and movies, "Dune", is that hierarchy doesn't scale. At some point technology will provide the few at the top of hierarchy unassailable power to reign. They will only allow this power to be used by themselves.
You have to have resolve and commitment to build, not just protest and bellyache, all the while on tax paying, voting,  societal, civic duty cruise control.  Act. Join an MGO.  The next generation of civic duty is hands-on.
The human race is no different than a deer in the headlights. Frozen. Make no mistake: the hierarchy will gas light you and expect deer frozen behavior. Only you can prevent frozen behavior. The hierarchy will burn it all down rather give up an inch of power.
Hierarchy must go. Concentration of power and control of society in the few is perverted power. Nations, corporations, and all bureaucracy must end. The replacement is mesh society. Horizontal group growth only.
The times of societal cruise control are over. Your choices are the fall of the US empire or start over. Taxes as minimal civic duty has run its corruption course. Hierarchy corrupted by taxes can take us no farther.
After protest, what? After Trump. Blue and red MAGA share a delusion of going back to some normal. Ds are corrupt as hell. Wealth inequality will continue to escalate even with Ds.
I had a cousin who would fly to Cuba via Mexico because flights to the Cuba from the US were illegal. I mean come on. They only thing required to get around the China tariff is to buy from a country that imports from China, which is like every country.
2025 from 1977.
Pinball, black light posters, lava lamps, Rocky Horror Picture Show and Wizards. If you haven't seen hand animated Wizards I highly recommend it. Bashki's art is mood invoking. He ran out of money near end of production and had to rely on movie clips. Plan B mon.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-13
----------------------------------------

It's bad already.
Irreni World Scale new research article today, Barter Not Currency.
irreni.social/barter-not-c...

Computers provide us new opportunities to revisit all previous ideas, The Barter Not Currency piece revisits what the purpose of currency is in the computer age.
Check out conservative media. Now that Republicans control government are they happy? No, they live to hate liberals and now they are shadow boxing with such notions as liberals funding research on fetus body parts. They've moved beyond divorced from reality to just plain hallucinating.
My tulips are still shaking off the snow this week.
Good.
The States should follow suit. It's going to be painful for Maine to divorce itself from the Federal money but once it does so the Feds have lost leverage.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-12
----------------------------------------

I'm telling ya. You heard it hear first. They can whisk you off to a foreign prison without any evidence or process. But that's expensive. The Purge is coming. Arrest them, let them out, and hunt them down dead because "fear of life" is a non-standard standard impossible to adjudicate.
They are never bringing the steel industry back to this country. Not unless they bring pre-EPA levels of pollution with it. I remember driving through Gary, Indiana back in the early 70s. Gag. I visited Guanzho China in 2012, same Gag. Bringing manufacturing jobs back to the US is all a big farce.
The China tariffs are definitely going to increase the costs for the US Military. Just saying.
Again, we are talking 1988 here. To meet Milspec, and I'm not making this up, we would literally take the card that said, "Made In China" and replace it with one that said, "Made in the USA." Everyone knew there were no fastener manufactures in the US but the Milspec law hadn't changed.
My first career was in sales. One of my jobs was as a fastner sales person for the Military, Milspec. Like 1988. The US Milspec requires fasteners be US made. However even in 1988, I repeat, even in 1988, there were no fastner manufacturers of volume in the US. Most of them were in China.
This why we need mesh society and Irreni World Scale. Hierarchy has run its course and can take us no farther. Any system built on hierarchy corrupts, qiuckly.
Crime is quick and easy. The legal system is a long hard slog. Something the T admin is intentionally exploiting.
The baby Hitler thought experiment was always a bad framing. It assumes the impossibility of a society so managed as to bar haters from ever taking public power. This sells out humanity's better tomorrows by assuming society will never advance to managing haters.
Grow up. Safety is not the root password to the Constition and when it comes to risk we should apply what we know. Don't put haters in charge of people or public policy, and bashing haters gets us no where.
We still treat everyone as mentally the same using a lazy religious fallacy of blank-slate free-will mental health. Mostly because we pretend a world where humans don't hurt each other is an possible outcome.
My rights begin where yours end was always a bad take. We breathe the same air. The name of the game personnaly and socially is management. We know so much more no how to reduce suffering in society with scientific management of human behavior.
Incarceration as a way to remove risk from harmful people is lazy, inhumane, and cowardly. All words that apply to Trump and MAGA. Bigots are our brothers and sisters, parents too, and deserve full lives too. Everyone does. Free will doesn't exist, only limited will.
Bashing bigots is not helpful, to anyone. Putting bigots in charge of public policy is not helpful to anyone. People who hate are normal by percent of population. Wishing they don't exist is not helpful, treating hatred as simple free will choice is not helpful.
As a society it is a forever conversation as a society as to what risks are acceptable and what we won't tolerate. As someone very far from normal behavior I'm opposed to maligning people for being different, albeit LGBQT÷ or bigots.
Everyone has to come to terms that in life there is danger. Sometimes a dead tree falls on your car at a stop light, killing you. As someone said, safety is not the root password to the Constitution.
What does it mean then to hold haters like Trump or Elon accountable? First, don't ever put them in charge of other people, and definitely don't make them President. Don't platform them without filters. Then realize they get to live life too and putting up with a**holes is life.
I don't hate. Unlike my bigoted patents. I was born that way. The bane of my mental health life is I'm easily frustrated & that presents as hate to neurotypicals. Frustration evaporates when the moments over. Anger and hated remain, often times for life. This is all organic. Free will doesn't exist.
Think about this. Fifty percent of all murders are crimes of passion, generally related to sex. Is treating them the same as drug abusing murderers useful?
European countries  in general have a 25 year maximum life sentence for murder. Why? Because we've known for decades that testosterone contributes to violent urges and after 45 men have far less testosterone. Why pay to incacerate those on aversmage far less violent  than before?
A Justice system is based on a wholely useless and outdated notion of incarceration. Incarceration does have one "advantage". It takes those with mental health profiles we don't like and sequestors them together, removing them from larger society. Destroying their lives to save ours.
Religion is our first worst attempt at social management followed immediately by a smidgen better system of laws. Justice is blind to science. It doesn't see it and treats everyone the same even when we know better.
Free will doesn't exist and what limited degrees we have varies widely. Both my parents had compromised mental health made worse by themselves having had abusive parents of bad mental health. Self medicating with alcohol really narrows behavior.
As someone who is #nuerodivergent I agree and disagree. 1. Free will doesn't exist for anyone. 2. The word "Autism" is meaningless here because broad generalization or one size fits all is rarely applicable to mental health. Leave "a man and a woman defines marriage" stupidity to religion.
I haven't done this in awhile. I like to do mood mash ups. One of my favs.







I love this for memes. I've written on that wall so many times.


Useless Collins
----------------------------------------
2025-04-11
----------------------------------------

Hi! I have a handful of new Bluesky followers. An introduction: the reason for my account: Irreni World Scale. WeIl I also have a tendency to post much art. 🙂
We need to start governing ourselves to reduce the reliance on Federal, State and Local governments. But how?
irreni.social/welcome-new-...



Crypto currency isn't regulated and blockchain is just smoke and mirrors. Chain of custody doesn't provide legal protections from scammers or anything else. Once Crypto is regulated then the fact that it is crypto is meaningless except for all the electricity is uses.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-10
----------------------------------------

Somebody should post what percentage of goods Walmart imports from China. Red States live in Walmart.
Ha! 6 days.
Ha! Ha! I can predict the future, well, 2 days at least.
What, did we just experience a rug pull? Nooooooo! This is no way to run a country.
It is really confusing reading discussions on libs and cons only to realize they are not talking about the US. Therefore I propose when referring to US politics: 
1. Libs as Tw*ts.
2. Cons as C*nts.
The splats are the spelling because both parties splat.
I'm old enough to remember that after the EPA started cracking down on polluters then in the 80s the US companies started what is today's modern global economy. US dumps it trash, pollutes and gets cheap labor for cheap products. So what, we take the trash and pollution back? Pay more?



You know, Irreni is full on mesh society. A good precursor to warm your appetite is the show Firefly. A crew of smugglers. They are survival culture living on a Spaceship. Only a half season. But appropoe of the times we feel estranged in.
Enjoyed portfolio day. Picked up a couple of new art follows. Beauty.
I've never tagged a physical wall. But I see art with wall space, well, I can't help myself to some clipart...


I'm really fond of all the colors and an an infinite view.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-09
----------------------------------------

mmmm, so when is Melania being shipped to El Salvador. What, you think Trump has higher ethics than Henry VIII? They'll probably just photoshop her into a gang photo.
Not just frontline medical workers. Public attorneys. 
Maine can't hire enough public attorneys for years now. Maine has been ordered by a court to find representation or let them go. So, AI Avatars will become the norm.
Cutting labor costs by even more outsourcing can easily more than compensate for tariffs. Plus, manufacturing offshore selling globally avoids tariff wars with the US. It is trivial to legally move a company offshore, or create one,  and split manufacturing.
Illumina is a manufacturer. 

Disclaimer: I work at Illumina but only have public info and the opinion expressed is my own. Just pointing out tariffs plus gov spending cuts  could easily incentivise shrinking manufacturing in the US.
About half of Illumina sales are global. Similarly the workforce. The defunding of NIH and NSF is cutting into Illumina's US lunch money. The perverse tariff incentives could motivate Illumina even further global because of declining US sales, higher labor costs, and a larger global market.
Surreal, noun: 1. Living in the US, watching a current courtroom drama with lots of cops testifying. Completely absurd. 

Watching Lincoln Lawyer as my sleepy time TV.
Oooof
So, what are you all going to spend your $1 million Soros check on? Me, eggs this week. Trump forgot the 1st Conservative Commandment: if everybody has $1 million then $1 million is now worthless. Min wage killer, so they think.
Personally, I think we should bring back the hippy movement. Tie die rainbow shirts. Dreadlocks. Birkenstock sandles with socks. Trust me, short of tattoos, hippy vibes really make conservatives the most uncomfortable. Exposes pinheads as their heads explode. Far out. Free love.
Just a reminder that woke is just bigotry. In my day we'd be called hippies. Live and let live. PEACE OUT. Wear a peace sign. The movie Full Metal Jacket poster was a war helmet with a peace sign in rainbow colors on one side and Kill Them All written on the other. I had long hair.
Just a reminder, I have all the answers. Well, dumping hierarchy for mesh society is the beginning of all the answers and that should do. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Trump wants to use half the military to deport 12 million immigrants. He wants to use half the military for martial law for the libs. He wants to use half the military for war on Canada. Another half in Panama. Another half in Greenland. At some point Trump is going to run out of halves of military
We are becoming Latin America. Warlords, paramilitaries. That can easily happen hear if Trump continues. Gangs in NY, Chicago, LA and such may be asked to provide protection. I'm guessing ICE stays out of the South side of Chicago. The are more guns in the US than people.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-08
----------------------------------------

Why is the US Military following unconstitutional orders? The right to habeas corpus is in the Constitution. 

1. What atrocity will it take before the Republicans remove Trump.
2. What atrocity will it take before the Military tells Trump no.
This is a slam dunk and yet Roberts stopped the extradition. F Roberts.

www.cnn.com/2025/04/07/p...
youtu.be/-pWv03CwVoQ?...
Ooof, my birth State. But, it is on brand
The question in my mind is how many rug pulls can Trump do before the world moves on permanently. You just know the tariffs aren't going to last, like with Canada and Mexico.
The left moved the Overton Window on gay marriage from 20% to 60% approval over decades. You are advocating static norms.
Deportation means returning to country of origin, not throwing them in foreign prisons indefinitely. Even MAGA has to know this.
Disaster capitalism. Remember the Dotcom bust of 2000? The NASDAQ lost more than half it's value. Guess what else happened in 2000? The top 1% taking all the wealth.
I was in the workforce when outsourcing to India took off in 2000. No way a call center person in the US can be paid like an Indian by bringing those jobs back. They outsourced for cheaper labor. Millions of jobs were outsourced for cheaper labor. Tariffs aren't going to cover the labor costs.
As I stated, environmental regulations will drive up costs. Labor will be higher driving up costs, putting pressure on  AI automation to automate away ever more jobs and making the avg IQ worth less every day. There is no turning back using tariffs.
Trump is claiming tariffs will bring jobs back right when AI is going to automate jobs. Scifi writers have predicted since the 1940s the avg IQ is going to become worth less as tech advances. Americans can't work for less than minimum like they do oversees.
Where are the States? Obviously the Ds in DC are feckless co-conspirators. The States need to start pushing back on the Feds.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-07
----------------------------------------

Humor break! 
www.youtube.com/watch?v=b6Nq...
If the US had parties like every other country, then the left would be a small party that formed a coalition with the Ds. However, genocide is a bridge too far, and no way would the left have joined with the Ds. The slaughter in Gaza is unacceptable. Negotiations could be made though.
Oil refineries grandfathered in after environmental regulations are still the only US refineries. Environmental costs are prohibitive. Pollution would need to pre-1970s.
The limit is when simulation requires resources that affect the simulation. The human limit is when people game that simulation as much as the stock market is gamed.
1. Bring business cards.
2. Bring pencil and paper. 
3. Network. 
4. Electronic devices can be monitored 
5. The odds are small of monitoring this  incident. The notion is a long-term attitude.
Voter shaming is wrong on so many levels, especially because it discourages voting. The percentage of Americans who don't vote is ten times greater than leftists who wouldn't vote for genocide.

Cory Booker happened this week and hands off protests. If we are not careful the Democrats are going to see these millions in the streets as validation of the multi-decade strategy of just being "not Republicans" is good enough.

youtube.com/shorts/UC5UX...
Irreni mesh society is a much better way to displace failed government. Find a group of 30 people and become self-sustaining. The mesh with groups of 30. Self-sustaining mesh nodes don't need the gov. But if you can't do that then start doing small things to avoid the gov. Learn to barter.
We are Latin American countries. They all have post gov society because the gov can't protect and won't protect them. We are there now. Be very leery of using tech. Paper and pencil. Once convert communications and transportation are available, start smuggling. Build up the gray and black markets.
1. Neighborhood banks. Use the dollar as private currency with a neighborhood exchange rate.
2. Neighborhood bank. Nothing large, in fact so small it doesn't require a safe. It just keeps a ledger and drops.
3. Start networking. Don't waste protest time. Start connecting with people. 
4. Dead drops.
Gratz! on the hands off protest. What now? Of course my solution is you should join an MGO. But, people aren't ready for that. So I have some alternatives. The government is now and indefinitely the enemy. Revolution will only install more of the same. What we need is to start post-gov society.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-06
----------------------------------------

The people in power who created this mess cannot get us out. Stop following and listening to anyone who is now or has ever been in Federal gov. 

I am not one of those people. That corrupt money doesn't own me. We need mesh society. Join an MGO.

Irreni.social
"I take no responsibility" - Trump, COVID Interview. 

This is also the Ds response to fighting Trimp while out of power. - D intereview

Ds take no responsibility for genocide in Gaza - lose election 

The US had ceded its responsibilities and deserves to be world power unplatformed.

And Raygun before him. The butt of a Back to the Future joke.

someone else who is neurodivergent seeing patterns:
www.youtube.com/watch?v=BTSn...

It is time for States to start trading with foreign countries directly. The chaotic, every-four-year, churn of national politics will be unstable for the foreseeable future. Let the Feds eat cake on tariffs and customs. States should go direct.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-05
----------------------------------------


Had enough? Ready for a mesh society where it is not possible for one person to ruin a global economy because there is no hierarchy? 

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social

----------------------------------------
2025-04-04
----------------------------------------

Penguins don't fear the tariff, neither the dollars, or the Venmo to pay. We can be like they are...don't fear the tariff...come on baby, I'm your man. La,  la, la, la, la la.
Well, since penguins are all over bluesky it is worth pointing out that international penguin day is in April!
Have they owned they libs yet?
LA Nina didn't disappoint this winter in Maine. It has been really wet.
Smugglers, start your engines!
Trump's a domestic terrorist. Terrorizing States.
Or rug pull to buy low and sell high.
And bomb countries like Yemen. War requires an act of Congress. We haven't declared war on Yemen. Or Canada. Or Greenland.

So did Trump's first term tariffs bring jobs to America? Or did the Biden infrastructure bill and Chips Act.?
Twice
Buy low sell high. Rug pull incoming.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-03
----------------------------------------

Tariff text file:
irreni.social/wp-content/u...
Tariff list by Huffpost, sorted and screenshot.
List is in Alt text.
false dichotomy, noun: 1. since all people are sheep the two political sides can use the same tactics and strategies. Politics is a simple game of capture the flag.
Case in point, the left is highly fractured because, to appropriate a word, they are freethinkers. The Ds highly resent this. They want the what the right has and are jealous. They want unthinking obedience.
You can fool some of the people all of the time, all of the people some of the time, ... The right has cornered the fool market. Those strategies won't work on the non-fools. Yet, Ds are going to gas light us that we just need a left Joe Rogan. Treat us like fools.
Here's a question worth debating on your own. Mainstream media was effective D proganda for a long time. After the election in Nov MM saw huge losses in viewership. Why?
Rush Limbaugh started in the mid 90s. Then AM radio became hare radio. Then Fox News. The Yahoo. Propaganda requires a loud constant volume that is relentless. The Ds are not doing this. They are bare minimuming facade.
Gas lighting 101.
I called out no one. That would be being a jerk. You called me a jerk, making you a troll. My point stands for all filibusters, not for one.

Being #neurodivergent I don't relate to neurotypicals soft bigotry of low expectations. A filibuster never broke a chain or freed a human soul. Nothing material will come from this. Expect more. Seriously.
----------------------------------------
2025-04-02
----------------------------------------

You know, if people were urging us to give atta boys to firefighters during the LA fires where fire firefighters are risking their lives around the clock for days on end then I might do such a thing. All the Democratic Senators for the next four years or get bent.
Who's going to blink first. The Dems of course. Blinky Blinky.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=qFBd...
Zzzzz, a little bit of slow blues instrumental to put you right to sleep...zzzzzzz.
I'm curious to see if this gets a copyright strike since it is music. This very much felt 2005'ish where one had to wait until the entire video was uploaded and processed. I pay Vimeo a few hundred a year so I can post my videos ad free without copyright claims.
Good evening! Trying out the new 3 minute video limit. Being neurodivergent I've worked from home since 2012 due to light sensitivities. When the pandemic hit I made video doodles for a couple of years to otherwise bring some smiles to folk not use to remote. Enjoy!
----------------------------------------
2025-04-01
----------------------------------------

Irreni solves this problem with cold networks.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-31
----------------------------------------

In a 2021, Brown said the city's style would be "hero futurism" with a "neo-Gilded Age kind of aesthetic".[8] The Praxis organization is associated with libertarianism and cryptocurrency.[2][8] In the company's Series A pitch to investors in 2022, it called its proposed city a "cryptostate".[2]
The system is working perfectly, for them. No denial, join an MGO today.
JFYI, Greenland.
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Praxis_...
I'm sorry but unless you are quoting David Patterson or John Hennesey this can't be taken seriously. Angelina Jolie? It is not her fault she's being used but come one.
I ran across a scam society that purports solutions similar to Irreni World Scale, Praxis Society.

How does one discern a scam society solution? Scams are rampant in society today and one of the biggest is crypto currency. The $TRUMP meme coin being one of the latest. 
irreni.social/scam-societi...
Did a bit of writing for Irreni today. A blog post and research article. Rights don't exist. Instead, directives exist that we steer society with. We are all familiar with Star Trek's "non-interference" prime directive. Here are two Irreni prime directives.
irreni.social/two-prime-di...

At this rate the WHO and Doctors without borders will be coming to the US.
Going wrong is the point. That's why the 20 somethings who don't know COBOL.
FWIW, Mesh society like with Irreni is local governing, not global economy. MGOs have component manufacture of forever usage products. In Irreni, 90% of the MGO pop. works for the MGO farming, building, engineering in the MGO. This visceral lifestyle will give everyone, including men, purpose.
They are lost. The are a community of the lost. Rogan is a flag they feel they've captured, nothing more.
Still early. I think think Q day will be here in the next decade. f
It wouldn't be that hard, just tack on an LLM AI and provide model updates the same OS security updates. They trick is they can't be universal the way OS updates are because then they are already useless. Model vendors with unique models will be required.
Oh, and join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
I took to heart the warning about hierarchy and high tech & created Irreni World Scale. Irreni is a mesh society of horizontal growth, not vertical. We either do this now before hierarchy has calcified or try again in the furthering centuries when hierarchy collapses and society  begins anew.
The clock is ticking on replacing hierarchy. As insurmountable as replacing hierarchy with mesh society appears in your mind, any possibility will become impossible once hierarchy hordes the highest of tech. This is the thesis of Dune and so many other sci-fi books. The warning is generations old.
The future is coming people. Fusion powered, quantum AI. Indefinite life-spans. Genetically engineered superior humans. That is not in question. What is in question is can society overcome hierarchy before any of those materialize? Hierarchy will use technology to make hierarchy unassailable.
The way to understand this is to understand that fusion-powered quantum AI is more powerful than nuclear weapons. We sequester nuclear weapons. We will sequester fusion power.
Prediction: The power offered by fusion tokamak generators will be used only for the military and not the public good. Why? Because quantam computers require large amounts of energy. The kind only fusion power can supply. A military with fusion powered, quantam computing will be the strongest.
Pro-tip: "Invent" a home router with onboard AI and active cyberattack measures including decoys and everything.
Also, AI wars are coming. As so many sci-fi writers have pointed out: once encryption falls then AI wars will ensue. One sees this in The Terminator and even in Star Trek TOS.
I keep telling my crypto-owning friends this, that block chain is short lived. The howls of denial are excruciating.
Greenland. It is time to get out the denial.  The Ds support Trump's agenda.
As the saying goes, they system is not broken for them. The Democrats are not beating the drums of anti-war because they are imperialists and will vote for it when the time comes. Oh, they'll put on a good show and have a few break-away votes like with Fetterman. The Ds are not going to save you.
Greenland. So why are the DC Dems always talking on every media platform about the fact that a declaration of war requires and act of Congress and Trump cannot invade Greenland. Period. Geez. Get a new script. Oh, what's that? They're not saying anything at all? They are all imperialists.
Sure, but what are you going to do about it. Do you have a plan other than the perpetual game of musical chairs of the last 4 decades? I have a plan: mesh society. Join an MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-03-30
----------------------------------------

I love how people are still posting video clips from CNN, etc. 

Have we learned nothing about the manufacturing of consent?
No one in the media was sounding the alarm about Trump and nukes this last election. Those who did got dismissed with, "he didn't use them in his first term." As if logic applies to Trump.
As my brother was fond of saying, you can't get ahead by staying even. Democracy was a huge break from monarchy. Mesh society is an even greater break from Drmocracy. We must have the same courage to make the break. Otherwise, what are we doing except tweaking failure.
Irreni stands in stark contrast to all of today's gov. designs. It has no hierarchy. It embraces technology and changes at the same rate. It scales infinitely in time and space. This contrast is a rug pull, blows away the comfort zones we have of society today.
Life is an infinite feedback loop and Irreni gov. design reflects this as well. There is no "set-in-stone" constitution. Irreni is a lab with experiments that can be failed at any time. That's the feedback loop. There is no permanence, just continual feedback.
I project with maybe 1% confidence that it will take 400 years for Earth to completely switch to Mesh Society. It will take millions of years to have the genetic technology to reduce the size 30 MGO to something smaller.
The MGO survival supply of one year approximates the limit of an individual as a society of one living indefinitely. The one year should be continually lengthened. Eventually, the size 30 can be reduced as well.
This  MGO approx. individual society is akin to a person today. It is the unit of voting, contract employment, and world engagement. It survives on its own and is required to have one year of survival supplies at all times. That supply enables an MGO the power to separate.
Mesh society has no vertical scale, only horizontal. It can divide and recombine on any scale. Individual as society is the limit, what is the approximate under the curve. Today, thirty people is the size of the mesh nod, aka an MGO. Micro governing organization, MGO, are approx. individual society.
In math, we call this kind of imagining exercise a limit, and we can integrate towards it. That's the Irreni design: a society of one. It is impossible but is the arc of technological history. Integrate to that limit with a gov design and that design scales infinetely in time and space.
Irreni recognizes and thrives on current and future technology. No other government design can change as rapidly as technology. Imagine a technological future where everyone is self sustaining, independent 100%, living indefinitely.
Fact: no government of any size can control capitalism. No answer to replacing capitalism means no answer. Irreni uses direct trade. We have computers now. We can barter and trade without currency. Currency is just a middleman ripoff.
Protest and revolution are twins. No plan for what comes next. A plan is needed. That plan is Irreni World Scale. Hierarchy always succumbs to corruption because the top has lopsided power. Mesh is best. Join an MGO today!
Today is Tesla protest. Okay, fine, but then what? Put Ds back power? Sure, that's better except it isn't to the millions who voted for Trump. What's the answer to that? It's not going away. Revolution is irresponsible. It blows things up with no plan for what comes after.
America has only ever been a partial Democray its entire history. Women couldn't vote until the 1920s, and trust me, the Christo-fascists will come for that too. Our "Democracy" has only been a worst first attempt, only great when compared to monarchy. We need to move on and adopt Mesh Society.
Capitalism requires cheap labor that suffers under undemocratic oppression. Americans oppressed children with cheap child labor until, checks notes, the child labor laws in the early 20th century. And now Americans want to bring child labor back because the oppressed can't vote as children.
The US was never a Democracy for slaves and Natives. And then the Chinese working on the railroads. And in 2003 due process for POWs gone by calling them enemy combatants legally. 2025 is 2003 except not Afgh. & Iraqi soil people are snatched to Gitmo.
How long before we see a Purge movie play out. Prisoners are let out of jail, and cops hunt them. I sometimes think the only reason we haven't seen this play out is the prison industrial complex lobby.
In 1989, the Supreme Court removed all due process and killed Democracy. An unfalsiable standard of "fear of life" where we can't read minds gave cops infinite power to murder everyone in the US. 43 shots.
Speaker Johnson said there isn't enough court time to give due process to 8 million immigrants. This flows directly from not enough court time for jury trials, 99%of felony convictions are plea deals.  The US hadn't been for decades.
One could use a data file, XLSX format is supported, but keeping version controlled files together on upload is best.
Pro tip: Use base64 encoding on binary files to utf8 when uploading pipeline files. The new16S will have Excel sample reports for all your data twiddling needs. The template was encoded this way because ICA expects only text files for the pipeline.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-29
----------------------------------------

Thanks
----------------------------------------
2025-03-27
----------------------------------------

Eating the Signals. When I heard the signal sing-song I had to mash this up. Ashamed to say I spent 15 minutes of my life on this. :) Man, he needs to layoff the oranger.
An what authority are we at war with Yemen?
I'm pretty sure they don't know what they are doing one day to the next. I mean how many countries are we at war with or posturing war with?
1. Greenland
2. Panama
3. Canada
4. Yemen
5. Gaza 
6. Mexico
7. More added daily.
Been an uptick in sexual content here. The one area LLM AI should be used is content filtering.  And of course it's not.  /sigh





It is worth repeating they are using Signal to crime. Trump pardoned the most notorious dark web criminal. Guess who is using the dark web to hide their crime as well as using Signal? It is so pathetic.
The Supreme Court during the Nixon years ruled the EOs can only be used to clarify laws when used for legislation and not as line item veto. Further the impoundment act, again during the Nixon years, requires all money allocated by Congress to be spent.
They are going to accidentally drop a nuke on Maine and blame it on Biden, you know, as time released. I wish I sounded crazy on that.
Exactly. Executive orders are not laws. Trump just invade a country.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-26
----------------------------------------

yup
You know Signal was used because Putin has some back channel access. Duh.
Follow the crime.

T: "How to crime and not get caught?"
V: "All persons use Signal, all messages expire."

Their desire to crime is much greater than national security.
I always wondered what was meant by Deep State. Now we know.

Deep State, noun: 1. Adults
Guaranteed they are still using Signal and will probably move to Microsoft Teams by the end of the after Microsft gets smart and adds expiration option to mesages.
We've been doing this since 2003. In fact we paid money for bad Intel and snatched people in Iraq and Afghanistan and sent them to Gitmo. For years. Without POW due process. The only difference is we are snatching on US soil.

Join an MGO and take control.
Bombing Yemen is illegal. Trump has no legal authority. Only Congress can declare war and under the War Powers Act he needs to be responding to aggression against us. My guess? He's still using the 2003 authorization. Where is our opposition party opposing this illegal bombing.
This was far better than the Clue movie. They even brought in a candlestick cameo!
I regret to inform you that, "Duck and cover drills from friendly nuclear fire." is now on my Bingo card.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-25
----------------------------------------

Fresh hell. Unfortunately I know what it is, Spring.
Useless Collins. That's $536 per capita. My dog could do better and I don't have a dog.



----------------------------------------
2025-03-24
----------------------------------------

Bill's Bagel's are the best. If you live near Bangor, be sure to head up to Orono, the Local Store, between 8-12pm on Sat/Sun. Best to get there before 10am though.
[Hand waves this is gross generalization.] 

Stars naturally form as pairs orbiting each other as foci of elliptical orbit. Occasionally one of the pair is destroyed in some fashion creating the planet material. A single star then is solar system like ours.  Headline is kinda missing that context.
Took me a second and I've been playing D&D since the 70s. But in my defense I have change blindness. :) +100 points.
Except for me,of course. The world doesn't need fixing, though. It is beyond broken. We need to redesign and rebuild society. Join an MGO today!
But why not make money? Smuggle. You don't just have to destroy Teslas. Smuggle to bypass tariffs. Let the gray and black markets reign. Down with the dollar, down with crypto. Up with free trade and direct barter. Tariff money goes to the criminal class.
The legal system is beyond broken, it is virtually non-existent except as a weapon for the rich. It would take from now until the Sun engulfs the to prosecute all the crimes Trump has committed in two months. People arguing to follow the law are passive enablers of the criminal class.
When to violionce? Jefferson believed the tree of liberty needed watering from time to time, but when. Now. 99% of felony conditions are plea deals, not trals. Fed emp. are doing illegal firings. Suits will take years in courts. Trump breaks hundreds of laws every day.
All she said was Maine follows the law, and we'll see you in court. What's to apologize?
Tradition is trial and error. That is way too expensive in human lives and resources. Tradition rains tyranny and oppression. We need experiments using simulation. That is Irreni World Scale. Innovation replaces religion, engineering not ideology.
Tradition was science before science. Tradition is an evolution-time scale where what is needed is something science time-scale based. We must ditch tradition time-scale, we must ditch religion.
One thing human and computing networks have in common is that designs at one scale don't work at another order of magnitude or two. We are still operating using a design for 10 million magnitude at 100 million. That's nuts.
There are similarities between scaling human and computing networks, but just barely. You have to anthropology to scale human designs, and the tech bros have not put in the years of doing so like I have.
There are no easy answers. Or quick answers. Bernie and AOC are just telling you what you want to hear. A redesign is needed. They are not telling you that because they are narcissists eating fame and glory. I'm not. I'm an engineer, computing and social.
Of course the blueprint for creating an MGO is available. In fact as Irreni rolls out, there will be hundreds and thousands of blueprints. But you and 29 other people have to build it, own it.
Join an MGO of your founding with 29 other people. You start it, you own it. The 30 people only become a mesh node when 1 year of survival capability is on hand. That survivability is the power of the MGO as a nation we think of today, or mesh node tomorrow.
Irreni World Scale is one society, a mesh society. No petty jealousy of countries fighting over and hoarding resources because in a few centuries there won't be any countries, corporations or other structures of hierarchy. There are no easy answers or instant gratification, just hard work.
Climate response requires a public whole Earth simulation. Why, because mistakes in simulation are much cheaper than otherwise. This is the use for AI, not reducing labor costs. Capitalism is literally killing us.
Capitalism prioritizes instant gratification over long term gratification. People have been programmed to think shortly. Step back. Things like climate change are going to take centuries to resolve. Irreni has a plan for climate change.
I meant below here. Hierarchy has runs it course. Which is governments all over the world are stagnating or regressing. Only small population with few millions are keeping it together. Because hierarchy doesn't scale, mesh does because it has no vertical.

m.youtube.com/watch?v=B7Ow...
Below is a link to the CEO of this website talking about how everyone knows as websites scale they need different designs to scale. Yet seemingly we pretend the same social design scales without change. As they say in. "The Princees Bride", ludicrous.
Irreni World Scale is a multi Century plan that restructures society as mesh and not hierarchy. There is an interview with the CEO of Bluesky that talks about scale, one second...
Hello!

Trump has a party so beholden to him that they won't impeach him. Bernie and AOC have no party behind them. None. They both know they are just cos playing at politics, getting high on adoring crowds. No party, no power. Everyone should know this.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-23
----------------------------------------

Why are we trying to replace a cult of personality, Trump, with one on the left? *sigh*

Join an MGO today!
you are wrong
DEI is not about culture. If you believe this you are  wrong. DEI is about paid family leave, or providing private rooms for nursing mothers to pump. And not discrimination. If your culture is discrimination then you won't like DEI.

The people against DEI also say all lives matter. This is not hypocrisy. This is just coded language to express hatred and bigotry against blacks, minorities and women. On the left all lives matter and DEI promotes that.
On occasion, I pop into a conservative media website. It's always the same reaction: how do they have all this energy to hate? It must be exhausting hating hard. My brother would say, "My love schedule is overbooked, I got no time for hate." Hating is a waste of time and energy.
Yeah, which is why you should join an MGO.
Exactly, which is why you need to join an MGO today and take control of your future. Got out of this denial!
irreni.social
You know what my brother said, you can't get ahead by staying even. Democracy is dead because hierarchy has been exhausted and taken us as far as we can go. Time to experience Mesh Society. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Had enough? Are you wondering if there is anything more than pandering and demagoguing by AOC and Bernie? Why yes there is. I have all the solutions. 

Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-03-22
----------------------------------------

Proving I'm silly...
Where is the intercom?
I has been dead for decades. Tomato, Tomahtoe. For example, it has been the case for decades that 99% of all felony convictions are from plea deals. Plea deals aren't in the Constitution, jury trials are.I could go on.

Join an MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-03-21
----------------------------------------

Has anybody checked recently if that Tesla launched into space has fallen apart yet?
Countries should protect their citizens by slapping something like  a 100% surcharge on all travel to the US.
Am I the only one thinking that if you are *gluing* potentially lethal panels to a car body then your company should be shutdown permanently. That's some gross negligence right there.
totally
re-leveled
----------------------------------------
2025-03-20
----------------------------------------

Right-wing media is just hate. That's not hard to do, you just need to be a hater. Since only so many haters exist I'm not sure how more hate market there exists. The right hates everyone.
@nia-and-niya.bsky.social
----------------------------------------
2025-03-19
----------------------------------------

worth a watch

www.youtube.com/watch?v=utBR...
Back in the 1980s when I started research on Irreni World scale one of the first topics was the American Revolution. Monarchy -> Democracy is a singularity in history. Benjamin Franklin and George Washington have been argued to be the richest people in America. They have no equivalents today.
And law firms, and the military.
I don't hate. I've been tested. I also don't get depressed or insecure. However, I make up for it in empathy and I empathize with the objects of bigotry and misogyny. The MAGA movement hating women, trans, gays, blacks, LGBTQ+, immigrants and pretty much everyone is a vile movement.  Love everyone.
Great actor who always brought the sunshine.
Disclaimer, I work at Illumina on the MiSeq i100. The MiSeq i100 has Amplicon analysis and can offload to Basespace   if you want. Start the sequencing and fully automated out pops the Dragen Reports for Amplicon, pushed to Basespace if you like. Push button.
The gtiles represent the CRT green of monitors. The shaded tiles are ones and zeroes but since there are more than two shades..:) 

Students called it the bathroom building and if asked  for directions somewhere else on campus then you would just point East and go, "Look for the bathroom building."
This Soda Hall which presumably Woz donated too for the room. My office and Woz Lounge was around the back. Just go up the hill, turn left, walk to the other end and there's a door. The first door on the right was my office with 7 other students, and the door on the left was Woz.
Where are the good rich people? I was at Berkeley when Soda Hall opened.  I heard Woz's name every day, the Woz room was where public meetings happen. I was an under-grad RA and my office was right across and people always popped in asking where the Woz room was. :) 
www.youtube.com/watch?v=ck-f...
Liberal States need to dismantle their National Guard under Trump's power and crate State Armies under their power.
Why is the military following unlawful orders.
Again, I ask, why is the military following unconstitutional orders?
Join an MGO, fixed size 30 person, survival organization.
Are we playing country Bingo yet?
----------------------------------------
2025-03-18
----------------------------------------

Why is the military following un- Constititional orders.
Whelp, so far the military hasn't resisted unconstitutional orders. So there's that.
A coz playing bartender who likes to play dress-up and wear designer dresses to the MET Gala that say, "Eat the Rich." 

We are soooo f'ed.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-17
----------------------------------------

Join an MGO, now!
I lived in Silicon Valley from 1985 until 2018. I went to Cal and lived in Oakland for nine years. Oakland has the Oakland hills where the rich look down on the hippies and leftists in Berkeley. I lived at the bottom of the Piedmont next to Oakland Tech rife with gangs. Bizarre place.
Happy Sunday! I was pleasantly surprised when about 10% of my followers here visited the Irreni post from yesterday. So here's another, Solving Corruption. Reversing Citizens United doesn't solve corruption merely sets it back a decade. This essay solves corruption.

irreni.social/20250316-sol...
Might want to check the follower notifications. I had a handful of bots today where normally I have none because I only have a few followers.
Coming and coming. Since the 1980s when I started Irreni. The University types quoted here don't have any solutions. They just have smarmy know-it-all quotability.
Missing is what the solution is. There is no normal to go back to. That's just D MAGA. Reminder, I have all the solutions. Join an MGO today!
Had enough? Join am MGO.
You may have chuckled when I posted last month to start smuggling, but you can also laugh all the way to the bank as a smuggler. Take advantage of Trump reducing law enforcement.  The Rs are for sure.
Just to be clear. I don't think there was a plan when the acceleration started in 2000, but now there is a plan to destroy Democracy and replace it with some feudal corporate monarchy. They want to destroy Democracy. This is the primary difference between Trump 1.0 and Trump 2.0.
Thanks for the Sunday musing.
Thinking the next Irreni essay topic is primary tension. The primary tension of high tech society is a healthy sense of identity and self-worth when cars, houses, food, and most things in life we value are not self made, but produced by large groups. MGOs solve this.
Right now one of the hardest coupling problems is package dependencies and version control. Common Object Broker of the 90s/00s never solved this loose coupling problem and faded because of it. If I were to write a loose coupling paper it would be how to manage change in software over time.
It was the first time I encountered market based loose coupling. Layer 7 switches are essentially fin ack brokers for better coupling. Over the years I've learned to search for caches, switches, and other such technologies when doing coupling design.
I worked on Postgres at Cal in the 1990s. It had the concept of portals, client side query caching with a twist, peer-to-peer search.  Data was sold peer-to-peer, ergo data brokers. Catalogs were the pilot data.
People are an endless source of mimic material. #neurodivergent
Maine relies on Canda tourism. Gonna be brutal.

Hard problem that takes multiple generstions. Having said that, the solution itself is simple. Join an MGO today. In 400 years, the collectism of mesh society is reality. Some problems have no instant gratification solution.

LITWPW [loser in the worst possible way], noun: 1. someone who thinks a skin color phenotype or equally irrelevant phenotype like nose size has any correlation to any other human chacteristic just to make common cause, 2 see also misogynist.



A Kobiashi Maru is a test of character, which Schumer failed in the worst possible fashion.
This racist and fascist.


----------------------------------------
2025-03-16
----------------------------------------

Canada standing up to Trump much better than Americans. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=RnIJ...
Pretty sure I just clocked Useless Collins at the Bangor Airport Hannaford. What's she doing slumming it in Bangor? Certainly not to paying attention to her voters. No one was paying her any attention either, probably because, you know, useless. 

#useless
Been awhile since I blogged about Irreni. Maybe I will get some readers from Bluesky?

These are the times that try people's character...

irreni.social/now-what-03-...
Love this dialog:

Cat: "I'm a hunter."
Dog: "Yeah, right."
This.
Some Israeli lobby is going to buy all of Schumer's books as payback for supporting Israel's genocide in Gaza. 

Duh
See, leading experts agree, Irreni World Scale is here. You just need to join an MGO!
Working in a science industry I got asked how much pi costs yesterday. So here ya go.
Re-leveled lighting.
What ideas are Dems pushing? Sure, progressives have been pushing Universal Healthcare, UBI, living wage, and such for decades. But Dems? What ideas do they have? 

If you can't name one then you may just be ready to get over your denial that our political system can be fixed. And join an MGO.
Only old people watch TV. So there's that. I'm old and haven't watched TV since 1984. TV is brain rot.
When people ask me what my favorite color is, I always say, "All of them."
Useless. And Useless-er.
Is this a joke? Tell me this is a joke. 

Cognitive dissonance, noun: 1. Stating in this post  Republicans using authoritarianism  that will bypass Democratic process based in voting and then responding with, checks notes, meeting with voters.
Yup. When I started playing D&D in the 1970s my brother and I were flabbergasted at how *serious* people got after just one or two sessions. After just a few sessions we made a rule that rogues couldn't steal from other party members and not long after, players plot against each other.
A book to Schumer is a lawsuit to Trump in 2025. Republican oligarchs having been buying books by politicians in bulk since the 1990s.
Now you might be thinking, what does Trump have on Schumer? Perhaps what does Russia have on Schumer? What's needed is to step back & realize our gov is corrupt beyond repair. AOC getting 500 million followers is just theater for which she dresses every day. She has no solutions. I do. MGO. Do it.
Yes, yes, feel the dark side flowing through you. That is until you see the light and join an MGO today!
Had enough! We need a plan. That plan is Irreni World Scale, join an MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-03-15
----------------------------------------

Chuck Schumer: "You don't understand, I had to do it, the choices were give him what he wants, or give him what he wants. The second give him what he wants is a disaster with him getting what he wants. I had to vote the first."
Expos factos. Come on, nothing like doing this crap using a policy after the fact.
Just some recent art saves from my Bluesky timeliness. Follow beauty and it follows you back.
And then what? Have the plan for what comes after the revolution ready before the revolution starts. Join an MGO today.
The gov causing rapid changes in the financial markets tells you everything you need to know about "capitalism". The invisible hand is gov money.
The Ds and Rs are going to continue to gaslight you ever more absurdly. You are the crazy one. You can choose otherwise. Both parties need to go extinct.
Translation, "Nothing to see here, move along." The entire thing is trash. Literally nothing to save. What we need is good old competition. The next party needs to overturn two party rule. What we have today is stagnation of parties due to no competition. End two party rule.
People still believe in religion. First things first. People believe gods exist.
My job is currently getting 16S on the next MiSeq i100. Wastewater samples are huge and only in recent years has the technology been practical.
[munching plate of fresh nachos] The doc tells me to not eat 3-4 hours before going to bed because because I have acid reflux and bad things happen.

I prove that doc is right every night.
Trump: "I have the divine right of kings, I am the only law."
Schumer & Jefferies: "Well, the Rs control the House, Senate, Executive branch and Supreme Court, nothing we can do."

Join an MGO.
Schumer and Ds are really bad at gas lighting. It is diabolical that once there are enough votes to pass the CR then all the self-righteous Ds come out and gaslight us more. 

Join an MGO! Control your future!
The Movie, The Matrix, told you to wake up. With a Rage Against the Machine song. Wake up people. Take control of your future. Join and MGO today! 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=4lzq...
Out of your denial yet? Ds are going to give the Rs what they want. This is how they hide, "It's not us, it's them! Honest!"

If you are ready to get out of your denial then join and MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-03-14
----------------------------------------

"Imagine if we were to apply that principle consistently today." Imagine if we were to apply moral objectivity to historical moralities like slavery and a child's future harm, ergo Andrew Tate and deporting a citizen, cancerous girl because her parents were deported. 
youtu.be/sSbiR9m5WUg?...
One of the longest running memes on the Internet is, "Why we can't have nice things."
Please don't post pictures of ice cream.
I don't know, refusing to stop eating cheese when adult onset lactose intolerance sets in kinda rude and  invalidates this. Unless you live alone, like me.
Touche
It will take more than two years to implement destroying gov but not capiltalism. The only way the Rs stay in power in two years is by authoritarianism. Dear leader like The Apprentice  propaganda is part of that.
Malicious incompetence, noun: 1. never attribute to malicious intent what is easier attributed to incompetence, and in knowing this deliberately staff DOGE with inexperienced incompetence thereby providing a perfect incompetence alibi.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-13
----------------------------------------

If I were in Congress I rather think I would change my name to Censure My Censure. They would have to call repeatedly to censure Censure. Because I would not obey stupid rules.
If only folks would continue the thought if private power growing comes from hierarchy growing; therefore it's the end of the line for hierarchy and Join an MGO today!
Hierarchy doesn't scale. As a country becomes more successfully economically, corruption runs away as the top of hierarchy pyramid gains every more money and power. 

Hierarchy has run its course. Time for Mesh Society. Join and MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-03-12
----------------------------------------

AI (LLM) is cut/copy/paste. There is no understanding.  Just a very large paste history.
Had enough? Sure, the Ds are nowhere near as bad as the Rs, except in being complicit in letting Rs do evil. No one in DC is going to save us. Join an MGO today!
You ever feel like your nation fell asleep on its arm, woke up and panicked because it couldn't feel it at all, and then stuck it in a turduckin frier full of boiling oil to wake it up? Yeah, me neither.
It's time. Voltaire's imperative to, "disagree what you say, but will defend to the death your right to say it", must have terms and conditions apply. I'll go first, except anti-vaxers. I'll never defend anti-vax, you can die.
The way to accomplish this is mesh society. It is not just patriarchy, it is hierarchy that needs to go. Mesh society has no vertical structure, just horizontal mesh nodes. Join an MGO today!
Just a reminder. Saddam put a hit out on Bush Sr. during the 1st gulf war. Bush Jr. wanted revenge. When they finally caught Saddam hiding in sewage culvert they took the pistol Saddam always wore at his hip, framed it, and presented it to Bush, Jr. And millions of Iraq casualties paid that price.
Bernie has been a Senator for decades and accomplished what exactly other than running his mouth? 

Bernie knows it takes a party. One person can't do squat in a 2 party system. And yet, he's been campaigning for a decade as if one person can. Trump has a whole party behind him: Bernie none.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-11
----------------------------------------

DEI. If you have a standing desk you are a recipient of DEI principles. My #neurodivergent melt downs are due to over stimulation from light, light migraines. I have to work remote because work environments don't accommodate light needs. That's DEI.
Well met.
Picking on the weakest among us like trans, and now college protesters is so pathetic. Up next, stopping Social Security payments to the elderly because "fraud".
Musk is just being cheap. Lots of 3rd parties will protect against DDOS, Cloudflare being one of the largest. It's expensive though.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me 20 times and I'm a Bernie follower. Bernie caved into Joe Biden faster than snow melts in the Mojave desert.
I have to say I like scrolling back through the art, photos, animals and space images in my timeline. There is good stuff here in the blue sky.

----------------------------------------
2025-03-10
----------------------------------------

re-leveled the lighting.
Tech bros knowing nothing about human nature . The same applies to the Christian Nationalist fascists. They don't believe empathy is the source of morality. It's no surprise that the tech bros and Evangelicals are comfortable in bed with each other, wallowing in their ignorance of human nature.
Serenity, like Hitchkers the Earth is no more, "Earth that was", is a send up to Douglas Adams. Still think Whedon's premise that the Chinese and US govt merge is on point.
Also, what happened to the days when one could just pop keys to clean the keyboard. disposable consumerism is the worst.
newegg search is terrible. avoiding Amazon when I can. I'm hard on keyboards and always use an external one for my laptop. This one lasted 3 years. Anyway, I typed in "mini usb keyboard" in newegg and best I can tell any keyword matches whereas I got what I wanted on Amazon in the third row.
Exactly. Much different = Mesh society. Hierarchy is done, stick a fork in it. Time to embrace the future and join an MGO today!
Police State
Woman's day. 

2016 BTSYE convention in Ireland. "It's time [women] rock the science world." 

Source video:
youtu.be/b9Zckx_vd3I?...
----------------------------------------
2025-03-09
----------------------------------------

This is waiting in the batting circle after Trump. 

Wake up people. There is no there there with the D party.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=SAzu...
I like to take these kind of paintings and re-level the light to bring out the detail.

#donthatemebecauseimbeatiful
June I'll  be 63 here. Started work at 16 W-2. Summers detassling  corn before that, cash though.
Most notably they would seat me in front even though seating was Alpabetical. Got bullied as teachers pet for that. Fortunate not to be put in special ed since I was all A student. Thanks, Mrs Nicewander, Mrs. Raab, Mrs Larson, Mrs Shoe, and those I don't remember the names.
Women's day! I was abused mightly as a kid, bullied mercilessly all because #nuerodivergent. My first reprieve was public school,which saved me. Women almost exclusively taught K-5 in the 1960s. They took care of me like my parents never did.
States stop paying Federal taxes. 

Stop having citizens pay Federal taxes. No need to secede. What's the Fed going to do, sue you for money you,ll never pay?
The reason people are dunking om Ds is simple: denial. The Ds are in on it. To admit that would mean the gov is truly lost and people don't want to admit that. The gov is working perfectly, for the corrupt.
Or, or, or, you are #nuerodivergent and don't ever feel anger, hate, insecure, or depression. You can cycle though. Which has nothing to do with current events. Where am I going with this, ##nuerodivergent.
Having said that, smaller cultures can change faster. MGOs of size 30 people offer the social structure of fastest change. 1. People are treated as people and not stereotypes in such small groups. 2. Smallest viable size for survival of a group where dependents are factored in.
When designing Irreni my research into anthropology  showed societies can only change slowly. Some of what we are seeing today is push back on rapid culture change. We can't put right everything overnight.
Happy Saturday!  The comments are full of D defenders chastising this toom. Guess why people aren't showing up to vote D? Are voting 3rd party? Politicians have to convince voters, not take them for granted. F being taken for granted is the spirit of the toon.
Canada should invade the US. Specifically I'm thinking of a drone invasion that spoofs the drones from the holidays. The attack is to drop $50 million in condoms on Washington DC, post marked return to sender.

Anger doesn't breed thoughtfulness, just more anger. Irreni World Scale has been in the works for 40 years. That's the kind of thoughtfulness needed to start the ball rolling to dissolve Democracy based upon hierarchy. So join an MGO, today.
But, we are where we are. As Mesh society is rolled out it will prop up existing governments. The more Mesh, the more successful existing governments can become. It is counter intuitive that a system to dissolve hierarchy will bolster it.
It will be completely irresponsible to revolt. It will be completely useless to just pretend things can go back to they way they were. Leave that pipe dream to MAGA. Mesh society has been well thought. We just need to get going. Ideally the US would've kept going at least another 100 years.
We don't need a revolution. We need a plan. I have a plan, it will take 400 years to implement. I'm sorry if people want instant success but it's not possible. We need to replace hierarchy society with mesh society. It's going to take time.
What people forget is that they didn't have a plan. This is the deficiency of all revolutions. This is why most revolutions end up swapping one monster for another. We got very, very lucky with the US Constitution. It wasn't drafted ahead of time, thought out.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-08
----------------------------------------

Moo
Good Evening!
Trump must REALLY love Putin if he is willing to deport white people.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-07
----------------------------------------

Takes a French Senator, US Senators are abject cowards and impotent.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=WrFj...
I'm watching "The Murdoch Mysteries" on Canadian  acorn.tv for $8 / mo and the series is set in late 1890s, early 1900s. There are like 18 seasons. And yeah, the Canucks don't like the Americans. Pretty funny. Good TV.
So fear mongering. Yeah, if you can't best um join um. Up next, blue baseball caps with a slogan.
Well, fu Trump. My RSO stocks going to tank even more.
Greenland, Canada, Panama, U.N., NATO, Europe. The right hates the world. The right hates. No allies, they'll burn Putin too. Eventually the left and the world will prevail. The lethal damage the right does is the only question.
Reporter, "Hakeem forbid members from moving. You crossed your legs. Previously it was stated that crossing your left leg meant no tongue and your right leg meant on the cheek. You crossed your right leg. Was that was a risky move? Will you may get primaried by your party for being  a progressive?"
Who didn't see this coming. Feckless cowards only interested in their own safety of pay, healthcare, and privilege.
Micro-governing orgranization.

irreni.social
Sooner or later Trump and Mush are going to mess with the wrong billionaire's income.
The Tariff King applies tariffs to tariffs in infinite regression!
Had enough? Root cause is Democracy has run its course because hierarchy that Democracy is founded upon has run its course. The only thing that is going to advance society now is to unlearn hierarchy and learn mesh. Join an MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-03-05
----------------------------------------

Null and NaN are types of zero. While zero means nothing, in computing it has integer type. Null was used in SQL to mean any type of zero, not just integer. NaN was added to mean impossible to have something nothing.
Hopefully Canada and Mexico realize today that Trump's word is worthless, and negotiating with him is pointless. The rest of the world should realize this as was well and never negotiate with The American Terrorist. The Tariff King.
No. Running against R's is all D's have done since Pelosi took the gavel. Stand for something or step aside.
No Taxation Without Representation. Trump the Tariff King doesn't  represent us.
Remember the Boston Tea Party was about tariffs on tea, and it wasn't 25%, I think it was more like 12%. No taxation without representation. The Feds don't represent us. Time to start acting like Trump is King, Rebel.
Have shopping party speakeasies. Get enough orders to fill a container. Get your tariff billing  laundered. Big pharna does this. They bill $100 for a band aid but only pay $1 to the hospital.
In shipping there is a freight consolidation business where entire shipping containers can be filled. All that is needed is someone to charge 90% less to cut the tariff and then pay  for some non-tariff service. Tariff laundering.
The Feds are going to be too busy doing the fake King's contradictory biddings  and be tied up in knots.
Barter is legal. Use barter apps to trade unneeded things. Create flash service mobs to provide construction and other services for cash. Get creative.
Resistance takes many forms. The black market is one. Start paying under the table. That's another.
If Harriet Tubman can smuggle slaves, we can smuggle tariff goods. You drug dealers are going to get in on this with pharma, like they did with Oxy
Trump is laying off federal enforcement. Why let the just the rich benefit from no enforcement. Smuggle away.
Gig drivers become the go-betweens. This way any size merch can be smuggled. Think of passing notes. States who resist tariffs opt to not enforce smuggling laws.
Think of all the gig drivers being smugglers. "Got any eggs." "You a cop?" "Oh yeah, turtlepurple" "$5 to hit an egg drop, venmo is pay method." "I'm in."
In the 1920s they had Speakeasies. Lots of TV shows with cool underground tunnels and hidden backrooms. We need something like that for smuggling to get around tariffs. " nicknamed speakeasies for how low you had to speak the password to gain entry so as not to be overheard by law enforcement."
Good time to become a smuggler. I'm sure there is going to be real money it. Just everyone change their name to Malcolm Reynolds and name their ships Serenity.
Solution: Amend the Constitution to change tariffs as a Presidential power to a Congressional power.

Sure, it might take years to come to fruition. And that's the problem with politics in America. Everyone wants instant gratification.
Well this is kinda fun...and an appropriate us of AI.

www.opmreply.com
----------------------------------------
2025-03-04
----------------------------------------

Flame thrower.
Uplifting...
www.youtube.com/watch?v=oZwy...
Head Spaces. Being #neurodivergent means every day is weird, and often chaotic. One coping mechanism is to have different head spaces to take you away from one you might file spiraling down or looping in. Music is a good head space device. 
irreni.social/wp-content/u...
Mmmm, options....
www.nzherald.co.nz/gisborne-her...
Wrong frame. Consensual reality is a myth. Until the Internet the number of people who could game information was limited. Now everyone can game information. Technology is advancing faster than humans and life evolve. The answer is to control focus via Mesh Society. Join a MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-03-03
----------------------------------------

Ahh, so resign is what we are going with to evade the EAH?

Let the Reign of Resign begin!
I think something helpful when not being diagnosed, mostly because mental heathcare is still in its infancy, is to read and watch existing conditions and build a quilt from the pieces of the overall health one has.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=gKC_...
Christianity, taking yet another turn at the plate.

audience, "Christianity had a reformation, Islam hasn't. Why do condemn Christianity and Islam the same?"
Christopher Hitchens, "My view of history is that religions all take turns at the plate. Catholics were just recently complicit with Nazis".
Had enough of the same old mind sets? Join an MGO today! Mesh society scales to infinity. Hierarchy barely scales at all.
Why I'm no fun at parties: technically, this is a counting argument. Divide the cake into 30 pieces. A part is less than the whole. Therefore one whole piece  is greater than 4 parts. Less is more. More is not less because the whole is the max and less equals more.
My understanding of the usage of high functioning is holding a job and living independently. There are tons of allistic mental health problems, most notably addiction.
Here's an observation from a lifelong neurodivergent mimic. People often confuse mimicry with intuition. People will say they 'intuitively" adopt behaviors of new environments and cultures. :) You might want to check yourself on that and question if that is just mental compulsion.
The first time I became aware of mimicry in mainstream culture is with the movied, "The Jerk", with Steve Martin. In that movie he mimics black culture. I had a period when I was kid where I fell in love with black culture and acted black, much to the chagrin of my racist parents.
Mimicry is like the uncanny valley of CGI people. The uncanny valley is something that annoys people but they often can't name it. They just can't quite put their finger on it. I can usually tell when people are getting uncomfortable. At my age I have an arsenal of diversions to distract.
Here's a question I've never been asked because mimics are not something people are aware of: do you have a mimic radar? Absolutely. As you can imagine it becomes an infinite regression pretty quickly. However, mimics don't respond well to each other having that in common. It is frustrating.
Here's a question I get asked at times: who do you mimic when there are multiple people around? First, my mental profile is unbidden. The mimicry is just there. Second, it is typically a power equation similar to how women learn passive aggressive measures to respond to power.
By now you have probably noticed I like to attach art to my posts. That's a mimicry defensive mechanism. And they are also regalitos. I fell in love with that word when I learned Spanish. Regalito is little gift.
I will say this about reaching a skill of a below noticeable threshold mimicry: it can be passive aggressive super power. One of my friends would stop me on occasion and say, "hey, don't use your Jedi mind tricks on me." I made a great sales person as my first job out of high school.
People don't like to be mimicked. However, if one mimicks word choice they generally don't notice it as much. I also learned to use deliberate personal idioms to keep people distracted, eh? :) And I changed my name, twice. Oh look, over there....
Mimicking is a quite a conundrum. People don't like someone who is not authentic, as she states here. When the divergence is to mimic though that is your authenticity. It took me years to learn to mask my mimicness. One trick is  I focused on word choice rather than physical properties.
Here is someone who is high-functioning, intelligent and autistic. My profile has no diagnosis. Being high functioning means people are skeptical. I mimic. Children  have a period where they are mimics. Still to this day I will mimic accents unconsciously.  

 www.youtube.com/watch?v=DTOP...
"Conjure that's the reason they're after her." 

I always want to use conjure reason in conversation and always forget. lol
You wanna run this ship?
Had enough? You know what to do, join an MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-03-02
----------------------------------------

Proper grieving
www.youtube.com/watch?v=FObX...
We stand to waste the 100's of billions in Ukraine if we let them fall. Where is DOGE on this? But the fact remains, there is an obtainable objective with Ukraine: they remain a country and Russia doesn't get more powerful. This is a valuable strategic objective worthy of US resources.
Okay, I agreed with Trump in 2015 that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were a wasted. But most of us progressives were saying this at the outset of the war: there was no obtainable objective. We wasted 4 trillion dollars over 18 years in those wars.
This wasn't the first time. During the Maro Lago FBI searches Trump threatened to expose dirt. He's done this many times. His threats always come up empty. I'm guessing this is because fundamentally Trump is a coward.
We must have the courage to do what must be done. We must replace hierarchy with mesh society. We must have the courage to reject Democracy built on hierarchy and embrace the mesh society. Join an MGO!
Today we are facing pure corruption. Presidential pardons are meant to correct injustices that have no other recourse. Today with the J6 pardons they are being used to recruit beholden militia. The next President will not reverse this course of perversion, perhaps at best just hold a line.
Authoritarians love obsolete gov. They weaponize the obsolescence by using appeals to tradition that convince people the obsolete gov can be maintained. They interpret the obsolete law however they see fit since the law no longer fits. Just like the Courts today lack capacity and plea deals it is.
It is fact that there are far more conditions today that need embedded into the Constitution than existed in 1789. Yet we lack a system to meet this demand. For example, Courts lack capacity and 99% of felonies are plea deals not trials.
Our will, or rather lack of will, to maintain a living Constitution has been apparent since WWII. The stagnation leaves ever more new governing technological doors open to AI and other emerging techs. These doors have no frames.
For me one pivotal point, one singularity in modern culture that demanded a living Constitution is the advent of atomic and nuclear bombs. That we have no Constitutional amendment to confirm ongoing aspirations and commitments to nuclear warfare leaves a door open to arbitrary capriciousness.
Abolishing a living Constitution is antithetical to Democratic ideals. High tech demands ever changing ideals. Evolving social sensibilities demands ever changing ideals. Every generation has an obligation to leave its mark on Democracy or Democracy is dead.
One bellwether, one touchstone, of whether your Democracy is dead or not is this: is the perpetual requirement for new ideas to meet new times being written? If Mesh Society feels uncomfortable to you just think what the writings of Paine, Jefferson, Madison, Adams, and so many more felt like.
Large populations and high tech creates a lethal combination of capability concentration of resources and power via large economies. We must have the fortitude to unlearn hierarchy and learn mesh society. Nothing else will suffice. Join an MGO today!
This generation needs an answer to this lost race. I'm proposing one, Mesh Society. Hierarchy of the rich and powerful is too systemic to every overcome in some evolutionary fashion. Hierarchy must be dispensed with deliberately.
To a certain extent the founders built in a race into the Constitution. That race is to eventually move beyond the rich and powerful being required to implement the Constitution such that the common person can take the reigns of power. We have lost the race.
The Constitution is just a piece of paper. In order to mean anything people need to desire to implement the ideals, principles and aspirations written therein. Today, Washington DC is 100% corruption. The Constitution means nothing. The US is no more.
The Constitutional concept is that enough political leaders would in good faith try and implement the aspirations of it. What's new today, what's novel today, is that there is no pool of rich political leaders today good faith implementing the Constitution.
Of the people, by the people, for the people was always aspirational. The reality is slaves/only male land owners could vote. America was built on rich political power. Our history has been that people like Washington through Johnson always tried to move the ball down the "of the people" field.
Bounty hunter wanted. Must be able to handle clean getaways requiring quicker picker uppers. Extra reward for orange stains.
Happy Saturday! 
Republican, noun: 1. Illegally sell drugs to fund overthrowing Russian backed Central American gov's that destabilizes them forever resulting in millions streaming across our borders, 2. Support Russia taking over gov's.
GIGO
Sexy Time! Sexy Sax. Sexy Bass. 

So turn on the black light. Turn on the lava lamp. Relax and escape into tranquility...

vimeo.com/1061473819
It's refreshing to see someone demonstrate resolve, commitment and purpose. It is too bad there isn't such a person in this country politically. Or the world for that matter. Seriously, in recent times who else has done that on the world stage. Perhaps the President of Mexico will some day.
----------------------------------------
2025-03-01
----------------------------------------

First off, I stand with Ukraine. Second off,  an enemy of the orange stain is my supercalifragilisticexpialidocious  friend.
Capitalism sells instant gratification first and foremost. This is obviously going to deprioritize anything that takes time.
Here, here. The best way to beat patriarchy is to beat hierarchy. Mesh society replaces hierarchy.  Join an MGO today!
Protests and boycotts are fine, but they are not solutions. Converting society from a hierarchical society to a mesh society is. Join an MGO today!
Good luck with that Republicans. Raygun drove women to work to keep wages stagnant and now a two-parent family is required financially. Yeah Capitalism, am I right? Yeah on the cheap labor.
Liberty requires eternal vigilance. We don't have liberty today. All we have are lazy cowards, demagogue-ing for dollars.
Did you know that Washington led the charge? At 6" tall he was the largest target. It took his generals years into the revolution before he quit being in the front lines. 

The rich today are all feckless cowards, keyboard warriors s**t posting like any two-bit troll.
Some people say Benjamin Franklin may have been the richest American in his lifetime. Washington, Jefferson, all rich. Where are the rich today funding liberty and Democracy? Nowhere. Putting their bodies on the line. Nowhere.
Got a haircut today. And not  wanted. 

"The upper managements give up salary raise this year (maybe 4-5%) but get to keep the AEG (30+%), while other gets the pay raise but losing all stock grant forever.."

The stock grants were significant part of compensation. 

www.thelayoff.com/t/1jn4803np
----------------------------------------
2025-02-28
----------------------------------------

As a software engineer who worked in Silicon Valley for 30 years, it pains me that tech bros have poisoned the wells of sci-fi and social science aligning with high tech industry. Shame on them.
Gene Hackman enjoyed acting, and that 
 joy  infused all of his work. A true treasure. Also, he came off as Gen X to me, not 95. He came off as someone not caught up in celebrity, a rare trait indeed. RIP.
Happy THOR's day! CI/CD is yet another example of where standards are needed but ignored. The modern approach of always playing with new toys is the opposite of stability.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-27
----------------------------------------

Religion defined.
I'm a little torn on this. I've been working on mesh society / Irreni World scale for 4 decades, so not exactly new. And I'm 62, so not new a voice. But I am showing up with ingenuity, tenacity and humanity. Join an MGO today!
I've decided that from now if some biologist tells me the test results for my applications are wrong, I'm going to say, "hunh unh, the app is just hallucinating." 

#gaslighting
----------------------------------------
2025-02-26
----------------------------------------

Good Evening

religion, noun: 1. disbelief in "I don't know/care" as a truth claim, 2. disbelief in empathy as the only source of morality. 

My answers to "all the big questions" religious bigots claim everyone asks is either "I don't know" or "I don't care", depending on the mood I'm in.
Buy crypto, the said, to the moon they said. They left out the kidnapping part once you reach the moon.
Excellent. All the sane States need to do this. Tie the administration in knots.
It is also good to set up .ssh/config with keep alive so session persists. User name per host as well as host alias for Ip only hosts,  dhcp ip  scripts.
I would never do that.
That's what I said.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-25
----------------------------------------

How North Korea pulled off a $1.5 billion crypto-heist--the biggest in history, so far. They left that part out. Geez Us. And the crypto kids are relentless in claiming crypto is safe.
Why do people platform William The Bloody. He should be in prison for all his war mongering in the 2000s. He's truly evil.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-24
----------------------------------------

A broken system can't fix itself. Oppressors are never going to give you the education or media platform to overthrow them. Just look at their reaction to Luigi. We must have new solutions to fix today's problems. AOC doesn't have them. She's got no imagination.
The problem with the big ideas of today is the don't fix the system. What we need today is Thomas Paine writing. People willing to call Democracy a failed experiment, a "stick a fork in it" done turkey. Paine also wrote about new social systems: Democracy.
Today we have no political thinkers. We have no Adam's, not Jefferson's, no Franklin's. Instead all we have are s**t posters. Universal healthcare, basic income, and education for life are the closest we get to big ideas today.
When I embarked on designing Irreni I first started by reading up on how America's founder's broke the human nature mold of monarchy. Mesh society needs to break the human nature mold of hierarchy. One quickly realizes that prolific  writing about fundamental ideas was key.
I have zero use for AOC and others doing social media theater. What do we need at this moment? Ideas. Specifically the large States currently being overrun by rural States need to form an annual Constitutional Convention going forward. We need ideas to combat rural terrorism.
Reality based. Today, electing new officials changes nothing. At best it just delays the inevitable collapse. Still, that best is worth striving for in this moment. But just realize it for what it is. I, on the other hand, have all the solutions: Mesh Society/Irreni World Scale. Join an MGO today!
Reality based. Hierarchy is antithetical to our new Manifest Destiny of re-imagining. Hierarchy requires strict adherence to the imagination of the one, the top of the hierarchy. This is too rigid to meet today's demands. All hierarchy must pass, including capitalism.
Reality based. To whit, our Manifest Destiny today is to re-imagine. Our Manifest Destiny today is to never let our imagination grow stagnate. We must always shake things up, nay even practice shaking things up. We need real-time evolution to match technology's pace.
Reality based. The Eagles were wrong in 1978 when they made popular the lyric, "there are no more new frontiers, we have got to make it here." The were talking about Manifest Destiny. Manifest Destiny today is frontiers of the mind, not land.
Reality based. Courage historically has meant strength, strength of violence, strength of perseverance, strength of compassion, etc. Today courage means strength to overcome our comfort zones, strength to be social pioneers.
Reality based. As Toffler said, we must learn then unlearn. We also must rewire human nature through any means necessary to overcome our base nature. We need to understand the fatal flaws of hierarchy, and then learn mesh society. If not, hierarchy will destroy humanity with high tech.
Reality based. Our current social and political systems are outmatched by our technological advancement. This is the basis of all dystopian futures predicted in sci-fi. Unfortunately we have not heeded these warnings and embarked on Irreni. Instead, dystopia is entertainment.
Reality based. The grounded laboratory of Irreni design is another quasi-ideology based upon today's understanding of human nature. However, as our understanding improves then so must the social equipment of the laboratory.
Reality based. Irreni requires the laboratory to remained grounded in the original laboratory design so people have solid grounding. The initial laboratory of MGOs with projects is designed to be in place until mesh society replaces hierarchy completely.
Reality based. There is no Constitution in Irreni. Everything is subject to experimentation and improving results. However, humans need grounding, a laboratory to conduct experiments. MGOs and projects in Irreni are the lab.
Reality based. All of the initial condition, quasi-ideology assumptions of Irreni are based in science but are not fully flushed out. For example, Irreni requires MGOs to be fixed size 30 people for many reasons based on social science. Social science is sketchy.
Reality based. Hierarchy is bad design when considered as design. Irreni excluding hierarchy is a quasi-ideology but in fact is good engineering. Focusing time and resources at the top of the hierarchy is super inefficient. In a word: stupid.
Reality based. Life desires to survive indefinitely. This means millions, billions and trillions of years. Managing the Universe will require large populations ever expanding across the Universe. Everyone in as a desire reflects the survival desire. We can't waste time on petty human squabbles.
Reality based. However, "Everyone In" will be a necessary desire even as we genetically engineer away the hateful tendencies. Why? Because our Solar System is dying, then to the Galaxy, and in trillions of years even the Universe. Survival is our strongest desire.
Reality based. The most impactful quasi-ideology is, "Everyone in." Human nature has a negative tendency to hate and tear down others rather then build up ourselves. To manage this Irreni requires "Everyone in". No one is excluded, not even the serial killers.
Reality based. Irreni has quasi-ideology to manage innate negative human nature, such as with hierarchy. It is quasi-ideology because as genetic engineering becomes a reality then we can just eliminate these negative tendencies.
Reality based. The moral arc doesn't bend towards justice, MLK Jr was wrong. It bends towards desire as technology enables complete manipulation of nature. Thus we need a desire based society, not an ideological one.
Reality based. Irreni is an acronym: innovation replaces religion, engineering not ideology. Irreni has an anti-ideology philosophy: desire and results. Desire is wishful thinking where results come from experiments attempting to turn those wishes into reality. This is anti-ideology, reality based.
Happy Sunday! When I say I have all the solutions it is tongue firmly implanted in cheeky. However, in Irreni
1. Mesh Society replaces hierarchy society. 
2. Experiments only, ideology is excluded.
Ideology is not solution based. When I say all solutions I cheekily mean no ideology, all solutions.
Leave the bullying to the right. 1 issue voters like with Gaza or 3rd party voters like with the Green party are not won over by bashing. Bullying is for losers who have no compelling arguments otherwise. I stand with Gaza and 3rd party voters.
Pro tip. When window UIs came on the scene in the 1990s I started developing tendinitis in my mouse wrist. So I went from Word back to Emacs. Still using Emacs and Emacs mode software today. If you start getting tendinitis in your mouse wrist then try keystroke only software. This works for me.
Happy Sunday! Plan: replace hierarchy with mesh society. Playing musical chairs with hierarchy leaders has run its course and can take us no further.
Happy Sunday! Just a reminder that MAGA Evangelicals think they are going to heaven, and that is your eternal reward.
Dunking is it. Name calling. If this is resistance we've already lost.
Puny god has never scared me because it doesn't exist. However,what did scare me as a kid is how gullible religious people are* and therefore advanced aliens playing god to control the religious.
*like with Trump
----------------------------------------
2025-02-23
----------------------------------------

Musical Chairs. What comes next? Biden was perceived as so bad that Trump was elected. That's not all disinformation. It appears the current "resistance" is just wanting to get rid of Trump which, check notes, is a game of musical chairs. Mesh Society is a plan. Join an MGO!
Back in the 60s bad behavior was just bad upbringing and a very very popular religious trope. In the 70s we got dysfunctional. I referred to myself as dysfunctional until around 2010. We need something easier than #nuerodivergent though.
AI wars are coming for each of us. You'll need a house AI to fend off attacking AI.
I remember the early 00s when threads were all the rage. I had to talk someone down from 400 threads. Then in the 10s docker was born to run an OS in an OS so that 400 threads could run on that docker.
Happy Saturday! I'm a bit confused. I thought they were doing away with the Department of Education. So all that money Trump threatened to take away from Maine is going away anyway? Stay the course Mills. Literally nothing to lose.
Just a reminder, Bannon has been a traitor to this country his whole life. He made his money by having cheap Chinese workers sell in-game gold in Warcraft. 
www.usatoday.com/story/tech/t...
News flash: they've been abdicating their responsibilities since at least the 1980s in pursuit of incumbency: out of sight out of mind = re-elected. The best way to be out of sight is to abdicate to the Presidency.
Still using Emacs. Most software suffers from more and sometimes more is just more. Yes, the Emacs binary keeps getting bigger, but the more that has been added since the 1990s hasn't gotten in the way of it just being a simplr text editor  like WordPerfect; only relies on keyboard and not mouse.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-22
----------------------------------------

The church  wiped out the pagans where witches just being what they thought were a final remnant. The Christian Nationalists today are white washing the Crusades by claiming the Muslims started it. No, some Pope wanted to repeat the success of purging pagans with Muslims. They failed.
Picking on trans people is so, so petty. And so, so on brand for religion and conservatives. This is the meaning of MAGA: being mean to the extreme of petty.
Even though our country is well beyond learning any lessons, no one person should wield this kind of power. The Constitution should be amended and put all immigration decisions in the hands of Congress.
Thoughts while eating pancakes for dinner, "mmmm, they say what doesn't kill you makes you stronger. So how much stronger do I get if I add grape jelly to my powdered sugar, syrup, cinnamon pancakes? Aren't I sweet."
... and the Christian response is Trump/Project 2025. This defines Christianity, it always has. 2. See the history of Catholic Church/State for millenia using force, not fishing.
Christianty, noun: 1. The Bible says to be fisher's of men and rejects using force of law or sword to convert people. So what do Christians do? Use force of law and sword, especially against children. The Nones are now the single largest religios group, threatening Christian privilege...
MAGA Christian Nationalists are right about one thing: nobody wants to be a Christian. Tyranny and oppression are their only options so as  to force people to be Christian. So that's the plan.
100% Every time. Collins has done nothing for Maine, ever. I have no idea why people vote for her.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-21
----------------------------------------

Or,or, or they have a sense of humor. I grew up loving the American tradition of creating humorous myths like Paul Bunyan. Impossible is part of the fun. Humor by exaggerating is one way to filter out pinheads from your life. So,yes, I do have all the solutions! Join an MGO! Today!
And their manifesto claims 1 billion people is a target number of humans and they will use "effective altruism" to make that happen. Please don't leave that part out.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-20
----------------------------------------

So when is Trump going to write an Executive Order demanding his title be changed from President to King?
So I've been calling R's "monarchists" for a while now. Trump calling himself  King means I need a different  clever observation to retain my edgelord status.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-19
----------------------------------------

Just a reminder, if you're looking for solutions, I have them all. Hierarchy can take us no farther, we need mesh society. Join an MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-02-18
----------------------------------------

The one thing I would not have a problem with is renaming this country. Because we are not the USA any more.
"I only regret that I have one life to give." 

Said no 21st Century politician ever. Until Democratic politicians start sacrificing life and limb the way they send soldiers into war to die I won't believe they are serious. Die for your country or get lost.
How long before Trump realizes he can dispense with a pretense like violent protesters and just declare martial law. Whether the military goes along with him remains to be seen. R's won't impeach him for anything.
Say when! Join an MGO today! Mesh society ftw.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=sblK...
There is no way Trump won't pardon Elon for all DOGE activity. We live in lawless times. Figure it out.
Remember when fascists promised to make the trains run on time? Good times.
It seems to be Capitalism and UBI are at odds. Capitalists lack empathy, by definition. If they had empathy they wouldn't exploit people/workers. Capitalists own the politicians. I just don't see capitalists slitting their own throats to do the right thing. UBI requires mesh society. Join an MGO.
I'm a big fan of universal basic income, universal healthcare and education for life. Let humans be human. 

But, capitalism is and always will be a worker exploitation system. Capitalism requires slave labor/wages to operate. No cheap labor, no capitalism. No one will do sweatshop jobs.
Bernie is a gas bag. All he does is talk. He perfected his schtick on Tom Herman's,  'Fridays with Bernie" talk show. Callers regularly pointed out he needed party support to get anything done. He never did.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-17
----------------------------------------

No urgency. There is absolutely no urgency in this. None, sounds like he is talking about the effects tilting has on windmills.
I'm not sure why the AP being barred from Prez press conferences is a cause for concern. The bigger concern is giving voice to whatever lies the are spreading.
Someone needs to buy Internet domains using, "nomorefreelunch", and redirect to x. Let's crowd source a domain name change.
I'm so old...

I'm so old that D&D version wars were when people corrected you for saying D&D when you were playing AD&D.
I started playing in 1977. I still haven't caught up with the usage of TTRPG replacing just using good old D&D.
Trump is not pulling out of NATO. He's aligning with Putin, the same as with his Greenland and Canada actions. Call a spade a spade.
Got Plan? Join an MGO. Just a reminder, I have all the solutions. Happy Sunday, hope you enjoyed today's sermon.
Got Plan? Mesh society designs built upon small, fixed size 30 population nodes can embrace free thinking much better than hierarchy. This is due to traditions within 30 people culture changing must faster than 300 million people. We need mesh society to meet the pace of  demands of high tech.
Got Plan? Free will doesn't exist. Free-thinkers are a tiny portion of evolution iteration that relies on past behavior being incrementally refined. High tech has upended evolutionary patterns. We must engage free-thinking patterns to learn and unlearn properly.
Got Plan? Enter the free-thinker. Free thinkers are immune from being emotionally  defined by the past. Toffler saying, "learn than unlearn" means learn everything from the past in order to erase the past and start over with  new plans. Unfortunately, this requires us all to be  free thinkers.
Got Plan? I get it. People spend years studying Democracy, capitalism, and history in general. This becomes their identity and a frozen myopic lens they must view all of reality through. They can only consider iterations of what has come before.
Got Plan? Why are we not rejecting every form of historical gov and creating new ones? Toffler said, "learn then unlearn" will be needed to plan this future. People get invested and attached because of the years of investment to what they've learned.
Got Plan?  High tech society requires ever more educated people, something we are failing at miserably. Hierarchy is a design that marginalizes the many to privilege the few. That aspect is inherent in hierarchy, not just capitalism.
Got Plan? The gov solutions of the past are not sufficient for high tech societies. They don't scale. We need new solutions. Mesh society is a foundation that replaces hierarchy. From three we can build more. Nothing will succeed built upon hierarchy.
Got Plan? It is really sad that machismo, misogyny, bigotry, and everything horrific that defines all of religion for millenia is being viewed as a good option today only because it is the only option being offered to failures of the day. Religion is pure evil and yet being considered as viable.
Got Plan? Ironically, the D's are running on fumes of dying tradition of aging voters where R's are running on even older traditions being marketed as new and better. To whit, the billionaires see R's as having a plan, D's have none.
Got plan? The D's have no plan, they are just really bad reactionaries and status quo maintainers. The R's have marketing, aka propaganda and disinformation. R's have shown the ability to control   masses through media. This is nectar to capitalists. D's control nothing.
Got plan? The billionaires have the scent. What D's thought were solid allies in the billionaire class all switched over to the R's and bent the knee to Trump? Aren't you in the least bit curious as to why?
Got Plan? We have a plan, mesh society. Hierarchy is a terrible design when considered as design. It just happens to be our base nature. You know what we say to people expected to overcome their base nature? Grow up. So grow up. Join mesh society, join an MGO.
Got Plan? The only thing that will change when T is gone is the right will find another puppet, a la Reagan and Bush before T. The D's will just continue to run without a plan, just run on not being R's.
Got Plan? The D's are terrible. The R's are even more so. This is not a sustainable gov plan, being slow boiled or quick fried. Look at how fast liberal media collapsed when being attacked by a QANON/Rush Limbaugh level skill. The political librrals are incompetent at pplitics.
Got plan?  People bamboozled by right-wing propaganda, people who saw Trump as better than Biden because of actual economic conditions, are not going to be convinced with Trump being a dictator in reality. They believe D's are worse than R's, whether that's true or not.
Got plan? In 1776 they had no plan and started a revolution. The after plan was rushed and considered blacks 3/5 of a person, maintained slavery. The US Constitution can be easily criticized for having gotten more wrong than right. Because it wasn't a plan before gov ovetthrow.
Got Plan? What plan does "the resistance" have? None. What plans are needed? 
1. Combat right-wing disinformation.
2. Address the actual economy that felt like recession to Trump voters when stats the gov use show low unemployment.
Yes, and hierarchy is a root cause. We need a mesh society. Join an MGO today!
AOC wore a designer gown to the MET gala many years ago that had words, "Eat The Rich," on it. This is not resistance, but just social media attention mongering. Why can't people see through this horse s**t? #politicianspandering
This has the Jesus knocking the door wanting to be let in to save you and when you ask from what, Jesus replies, from what I'm about to to do to you meme vibe.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-16
----------------------------------------

I'm beginning to doubt myself.  I was thinking the Republicans are going to ban the Democratic party like the Communist Party was banned in 1954. Now I'm thinking I could be wrong on this. The feckless Democrats will just leave the Democratic party and become Republicans, for the money. #redpilled
As long as Wall Street needs the public then this is the limiting factor for complete authoritarianism. The future of Democracy is contingent on the score keeping system of the oligarchs and the game of musical politician chairs is just so much noise.
The only thing stemming the oppression by authoritarians in the US and world is a Frankenstein of oligarch creation: the stock market. You're not an oligarch if your stocks get zeroed out. Cash is in king? Maybe, but it is a limited resource, even when printing dollars relative to electronic bits.
The oligarchy factions are going to use the MAGA method, rope plebs in using propaganda campaigns to craft not just narratives, but alternate realities. No Matrix is required. The mind is born weak and only made sturdy by education and self-thinking, both easily and cheaply defeated.
In 1984 everyone works for the government, or one bureaucracy. This is the ultimate power. Anyone who thinks the oligarchy wants less power is fooling themselves. What's about to take place is hierarchy wars, factions conquering each other.
DOGE is coz playing at fixing bureaucracy. There is no better bureaucracy design to follow. DOGE is just mindlessly hacking limbs off the bureaucracy tree that will predictably and easily grow back. This is because power stems from bureaucratic size. They want more power = bureaucratic growth.
The Cycle of Empires is well known. The Cycle of Empires is just a subset of the Cycle of Bureaucracies. When I first started designing mesh society in the 80s I read up on the cycle of bureaucracy. Nothings has changed. No one has improved bureaucracy even on iota.
The problems with centralized systems built around hierarchy are many-fold catastrophic. For example, power transition. Corporations live and die on CEO transition. Corporations are constantly re-orging due to head changes of upper management.
The US Constitution being a static document almost impossible to amend is a bad design in high tech societies rapidly changing. There are no constitutions in projects. Projects have to be renewed every five years. This enables governing to change at the rate of social change due to high tech.
There are no politics in Irreni. The "poli" in "politics" comes from the Greek word "head". Irreni World Scale is a mesh society. There are MGOs, micro-governing organizations, and projects. MGOs work together to implement projects of any scale. Projitics? Projects have to be renewed every 5 years.
The US is no more. Time to accept that. Root cause is hierarchy doesn't scale. Absolute power corrupts is an indictment of hierarchy, money focuses at the head. Time to adopt mesh society. Time to adopt Irreni World Scale. Time to join an MGO. Today.
Whatever follows Trump will not fix things. Obama didn't end the wars in the Middle East and the ACA did give millions healthcare, but also created United Health Group. The ACA has been mostly nullified by being gamed.
Historical fact Trump failed at everything in life, he just had enough money to cover up his mistakes even with declaring bankruptcy multiple times. The Apprentice was just trolling. Yet people voted for him to succeed in making eggs cheaper. The bar is not high here.
Move fast and break things is just a euphemism for too cheap to test. The customer is the tester. Or just, we don't care, our customers use our product even if we murder somebody in broad daylight on 5th Avenue in New York.
Incompetent people can't do things that require competency.  Stupid people can't do things that require intelligence. The current set of clowns running our government are going to bring it all down. Bet on it.
Just a reminder there are 8 billion people on the planet, of which the US is only 330 million. Once the world begins the process of going off the dollar the rest of US world dominance will follow suit. Personally I think this is a very good thing.
The bigger concern is public discourse.  Historic  public collaboration as peers is being sold as AI and the creators  are not compensated. It remains to be seen if people will still post on StackOverflow knowing StackOverflow sold their  public content for millions.
Nothing yet. AI just screen scraped Reddit, StackOverflow, Microsoft Developer Network, and such. After using those sites forever it is obvious where the code is coming from. For example, ask a TypeScript question and then search MDN. Viola, one and the same.
Zero to do with 51st State. 100% to do with his meeting with Putin. Putin wants the Northern sea lanes for Russia. Here's looking through ya.
Happy Valentines! 2025! Nothing says love like a silly love song from 1973 Japan played on Winamp! Get groovy with that lava lamp, black light, and that special someone. 

vimeo.com/1056947370
----------------------------------------
2025-02-15
----------------------------------------

Going after porn money, an indication they failing to get some elsewhere. :)
----------------------------------------
2025-02-14
----------------------------------------

Wanna hear a joke? 

The Republicans want to raise the debt ceiling by $8 trillion and cut "waste" by $2 trillion.

Ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! That's $10 trillion dollars. Guess where that money is going to go?
If you want to know how media and Democratic party have betrayed you, just realize Trump's finger on the nukes has not  been raised. 

"Oh, but he didn't do it his first term." Because people stopped him. He wanted to use tactical nukes in Syria. 

Nukes would crown him king of the tough guys.
When do we nuke hurricanes? 

Not one of his cabinet would stop him.

www.axios.com/2019/08/25/t...
What, Mark Cuban is a millionaire. Bernie has been singing his song since in office. A handful of elected officials are being noisy. And people follow them like these people are not Lucy pulling the ball, every time. Be the change you demand. Join an MGO.
There is no best character in the 90s TV series Spike.
I lost all respect for Google when they quit being the search engine for Yahoo!, ripped off Yahoos ad technology while exiting, then lost a suit over that theft and paid millions in fines long before the "do no evil" tag line. I'm like that, no respect for thieves.
In 1954 the Communist party was banned in the US. How long before Republicans ban the Demcratic party today and any future party that might challenge them?
Now you might be asking yourself how you can start a small shadow government to insulate yourself from what's about to come. Well, I have good news for you: join an MGO. MGOs are micro-governing organizations designed to be survival units. Join an MGO today!
At some point Republicans are going to realize the Constitution is null and void and that they can just pass bills giving themselves money straight from the treasury. Nobody will stop them.
Why the pretense? Seriously. Why not just give Elon the $400 million? They are never going to deliver the trucks.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-13
----------------------------------------

Kyle is on fire here about Dems whining and moaning about getting too many phone calls from their voters.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=i6CS...
Happy Wednesday! Whatever laws Elon & Doge are breaking they know they will be pardoned. This is the end of the line for the US Constitution.
We've subverted trust for money, a free lunch, and have realized a society with little to no trust because of hyper-capitalism. This corrupted system cannot self-correct. Irreni World Scale is designed to solve this problem: get rid of capitalism. Join an MGO.
Even in the 1990s it was predicted that at some we would always be on camera and always performing for dollars. Cyberpunk world. What was not predicted was everything written would be ad revenue and gamed to death, including conversations like on social media.
"My dad did that to his car after school to make it go faster and make loud noises."
Well, I was in computer science grad school at UC Berkeley in the 1990s when the Google guys came to present their research. Audience question afterwards, "How is stripping down software and hardware considered research?"
Yahoo! and Google both came from Stanford. The difference is Yahoo! was a lark, a whim, whereas Google sold itself as research and smart.
We need to bring back Yahoo! from the 1990s when it was just an index of manually curated useful links. Google has devolved  into that, except instead of useful links they have SEO spam links.
When Trump gets done destroying this country, guess what's not going to happen? What didn't happen in all those other gov we destroyed. Seriously, join an MGO. No one in DC or on Wall Street can build a gov. The proof is all around the world.
You see, the US has never been able to build a country. Once we destroy the gov, we leave. Happened in Central America, Haiti, Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia... Iran. Build the peace, ha. Well, guess what?
The Southern Border "problem" was created by us. Responsiblity is ours, but we don't take it. In the 1980s Raygun overthrow the govs of Central America. Illegally. Well, those countries have never stabilized since the 89s, just like with Hatai.
We forgot Iraq history as it was happening in real time. It showed us we are not a country, not a group of people who care about the consequences. We just pretend it is somebody else, something else. We don't take any responsibility. Cry my beloved country, cry. I hope we can again, someday.
I often wonder how many Americans ever stopped to grieve for all the trillions wasted on those "wars", and the thousands of American soldiers killed in combat, thousands more died by PTSD suicide. We didn't bat an eyelash at that 100% waste. Not even a memorial.
At some point you just get numb to the breadth and depth of corruption. The Bush admin was a whole nother level. Trump is going to surpass Bush easily. Cry my beloved country, cry. Always felt that book title applied well during the Bush years.
100,000 M1 rifles. Yeah. Iraq war had pallets with billions in cash go missing. We spent trillions on three wars and gained nothing. Total waste of money and life. But still, the Pentagon reported losing 100,000 M1 rifles and that story didn't last a 24 hour news cycle.
Thus quoted Roger Waters in his, checks notes,  1992 Album, "Amused To Death." What is currently transpiring in Washington today was easily seen from decades ago. A no brainer really. This is because politicians are idiots following a trail of idiot breadcrumbs.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-12
----------------------------------------

Rumor is Putin just offered to buy Alaska, again. The Danes want California. Japan has always wanted Hawaii. Canada wants Maine. Lots of money on the table, I say take it.
Mexico needs to move its embassy to Mara Lago. After buying it, of course
China is going to eat our research lunch. Most biotechnology of any size is global. If this sustains moving out of country may  start. Canada is already offering.
There is woke in understanding systemic racism and murder, like health insurance companies denying care. 

Then there is another level woke in understanding that hierarchy has run its course and can take us no further. The time is now for mesh society.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-11
----------------------------------------

At this point one can be assured everything like this is fake.
Maine doesn't salt roads, but rather uses sand. This gives a very Mad Max, desert feel with all the cars covered in tons of sand.
capitalist paradox, noun: 1.  Capitalism requires good-faith public trust in a host government that the capitalists neither have faith in or trust.
arrogance, noun: 1. The tech bro belief that Trump will only burn down precisely those parts of the gov they don't want and not the entire economy where their computer bit stocks have billions in value.
Did you know reprenstatives can't be arrested on the House Floor? When Democrats start sword duels on the floor with Republicans then I might take them seriously.
I started working on Irreni when I was very young. It was obvious the country was failing. Being #neurodivergent is not a superpower, it is a different perspective. Every second among neurotypicals is weird. Things are getting very weird. Weird is a normal for some of us, perhaps not for you.
So many people coming to the realization that the US is failed. Next up, solutions. Which I have. Join an MGO today!
----------------------------------------
2025-02-10
----------------------------------------

Just a reminder, if you are looking for solutions to this madness I have all of the solutions. All of them. 

Join an MGO.
Here's the thing about tech bro longtermism and their desiring death of billions. They readily admit it. We just aren't paying attention it.
Doing nothing about climate change is tech bro extreme longtermism of effective altruism. They desire and count on billions dying because of it. While you may find that unthinkable, they don't.
Those with empathy can't conceive the mind without it. This deficiency has meant free reign is given to the depraved due to lack of imagination and inability to conceive. The tech bros, like Evangelicals, lack empathy. They will destroy humanity and sleep well. Count on it. Know it. Act like it.
I struggle with judging the depths of depravity between religion and the tech bros: which is deeper.  Then I realize they are  the same. If there is any magic in the world it is that religion has gas lit humanity into believing religion is benevolent when in fact religion is evil unparalleled.
The elimination of USAID funding is in accordance with tech bro longtermism. Death by doing nothing.
The price of large populations is eternal health vigilance. Remove the vigilance and no more large populations.
They write about how doing nothing is how they will kill billions. One example is promoting anti-vax ideas. A soceity that does nothing about deadly viruses  is a dead society. A few naturally occurring pandemics and so on. Allowing war to happen.
Tech bros ascribe to a cynical, extreme form of longtermism with effective altruism. They advocate the world population to be one billion and killing billions of humans. Just in case you were wondering about their end game of human suffering. A minimal labor force for rich resource hoarding.
At some pain point in the not too distant future the nations of the world are going decide the instability of US behavior is not worth anchoring too. The US dollar, trade, and world politics will become increasingly irrelevant. The US will become isolated and weak.
Quit talking like the US Constitution has agency. It's not alive. It can't have a crisis. One might say it is a crisis for the people that the Republican party and Trump are ignoring the US Constitution. The consequences of this are unknown. The do-nothing Democrats are party to it by doing nothing.
When the government decides to ignore US Constitution then it is not a constitutional crisis.  It is constitutional irrelevance. The US Federal government is a failed State. It is little solace that the military swears to uphold a constitution the rest of the government is ignoring.
The Republican party is not interested in the US Constitution, just power. This aligns with Trump and Mush. The US Constitution is just a piece of paper with no magic in it. It's meaning only manifests if the government abides by it.
Ugh, our government is long past any one person making a difference. It takes a party. The Republican party supports everything Trump is doing. The Democratic party would not support Stewart, just like the didn't support Bernie.
What's to stop him. Court has no police. President has immunity. Enforcement done by DOJ .
Did the Democrats repeal the Patriot Act? No. End the wars under Obama? No! Close Gitmo? No! Obama promised that. Whatever power Trump carves out, the Dems will roll with  it after Trump, except for some public relations repeals.
Yeah! Private health care is the best. The two providers in Bangor Maine,  Northern Lights and Penobscott Community,  are on the verge of bankruptcy. NL isn't taking new patients, and PCH takes months to get one, no emergency walk in.
Exactly, which is why Irreni World Scale is a mesh society. A mesh society is horizontal and has no hierarchy. Just nodes called MGOs and projects. And MGO management. 

Join and MGO today!
The fact that it takes weeks, well  over a month, for a judge to get involved means the, "it's easier to ask for forgiveness", strategy has unlimited potential. They are just going to keep at it, no holds barred. They have no respect for the US Constitution, rule of law, or the spirit of the law,.
Who many days before they poll, "The Unite States is failed." 

Irreni World Scale is the solution. If you get polled. Or are looking to fix things.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-09
----------------------------------------

Insanity, doing the same thing over and over again. Protests are not a solution. There are many options. The best option in my opinion is to bring back State autonomy. The Federal Government is a goner. State governments need to tack toward being independent nations.
Modicum is a word that is abandoned. A modicum of research into when the US failed will easily reveal the US failure was many decades ago. We've just been living on the borrowed time of reflexive, habitual governing ever since. Those reflexes and habits have withered and will continue to do so.
Agreed. Nations need to quarantine the US. Label the US terrorist. No tourism, economic embargoes, freeze assets. You know, what the US has done to Cuba for decades. Karma's a b.
Nullification of the US Constitution means the States are free. No need to secede, States have been severed. Time for States to  ignore the Feds. Just ignore it
At some point at least a few people are going to move past ye ole, "The End Times Are Nigh" mentality and start looking for solutions. 

This is just a reminder, I have all the solutions. 

Join an MGO today!
What DOGE is doing nullifies Article 1 of the US Constitution, all of the US Constitution. States should act accordingly. Start by issuing their currency, screw the dollar. Build out. Start banks, etc. Declare State residents free from Federal taxes. This is serious what is happening. Act like it.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-08
----------------------------------------

States don't need to secede. States can just stop paying taxes to the Feds. What's Trump going to do, cry? States can just ignore Supreme Court decisions and other court decisions. Again, what's the Fed going to do? Stop taking Federal money. Become independent financially and legally.
Time to play hardball.
1. Nations need to impose embargoes, economic sanctions, and declare the US a rogue, terrorist state expressly prohibiting tourism.
2. States need to stop cooperating with the Federal government.
Some of the comedy on Bluesky is to die for.
Religious tests are verboten in the constitution. Don't need a commission.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=TKP7...
I guess all those "nevers", "stop now" and "tsk tsk" this week added up to what's on the plate with the pastrami sandwich I just ate: nothing.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-07
----------------------------------------

Fool me once, shame on me, fool me 50 million bazillion times and here we are.
Good Evening! 

Turn on the lava lamp, the black light, and some cheap projector. Project this on the wall then turn off the lights and enter a Jazz Head Space.  #winamp #music

vimeo.com/1053997760
She should seriously pair up with that Southern Bell Lindsey Graham. 

1. "Oh my, I never!"
2. "Bless their hearts!"
3. "Whatever will we do! Pray tel!l" 
4. "My lemonade needs more ice!"
5. "I do declare, I think I'm about to faint!"
The gas lighting will continue until everyone believes it's true.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-06
----------------------------------------

Happy Wednesday! If  Gaza is razed, Gazans evacuated, and Gaza made into a Trump theme park then it will be the honey pot of honey pots for terrorists. It would be the easiest place to kill Americans and westerners for ISIS. 

Unless the US spends a gazillion dollars for daily defense.
Yeah, right. " ‘read-only access’ , you left out the "wink, wink" part. Why would you do that? See this is why people don't trust the mainstream media. They are not exactly lying, they are just reporting verbatim what they are told to them and that makes them completely untrustworthy.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-05
----------------------------------------

Elon stealing info isn't the half of it. The other half is he's installing backdoors into the servers. This way he'll continue to have full access even after he gets kicked out.
This is line-item veto that the Supreme Court, cough cough, has already ruled is unconstitutional.  /smirk
Move fast and break things is a euphemism for "users are our testers" for companies who don't want to sufficiently test. 

AI is the ultimate move fast deployment of vacuuming in all data good and bad and treating it all the same, aka gigo.
Every test environment should be somebody's test environment, but isn't. 

#watchmen
This is how Joseph Kennedy made his fortune. He was given the date for Prohibition repeal in advance and had boats with booze waiting at the docks of New York City. 

keep up the good work!
You left off the dollar amount, 

Alex, I'll take "What was cybersecurity" for $500.
Dear @bsky.app , I'm requesting an expiration date be configurable for posts. I'd be happy with something simple in settings like, "delete posts after 30 days."
I don't hate it but it is annoying that something that should have been done at the transport layer is being enforced at the file level. It would be like if everything  downloaded from the web was gzip'ed instead of using it for transport. Another format will supersede endlessly at this rate.
Given we are in this  unprecedented time then appeals to historical actions are doomed to fail. New thinking is required. Irreni Word Scale is one such thinking, defining society using mesh nodes. An infinite possibility exists. The only route to sure failure is to only think in historical terms.
In many ways MAGA is just a child throwing a tantrum because it can't have its way. They'd rather burn the house down then let anyone have it. The challenge is how to align a vast array of minorities to function as a single group to stop them. This is historically unprecedented.
MAGA is still living in era where a nation defines its identity by a majority group. While it is true that the US historically has always done so, it is false to assert it must always do so. Culture changing is the only the constant and MAGA is trying to futilely deny this aspect of human nature.
In many ways MAGA wants direct democracy. The Federalist Papers argue that we all belong to a minority group in some fashion. Representative gov that can balance minority versus majority interests based upon costs and social acceptance is superior to direct democracy.
The LGBTQIA+ identity is just the latest being added. MAGA is correct in the assessment that the US identity can't function as historically derived because it was never designed too. They are morally wrong and evil in insisting the only path is backward. Humans like all animals are always adapting.
The reality is the historical US identity was always a facade that arguably left the majority of Americans out of the identity. Women weren't allowed to vote, blacks where slaves, natives were killed. The Internet has leveled the identity playing field.
In many ways the current moment is simply people trying to come to grips with when the US is no longer the US to them. As millions of Americans come to the "too many bites" conclusion then governing this country is going to become impossible and only tyranny will remain. Can a new US emerge?
Nationalists/conservatives/MAGA define the US to be borders and name only. Otherwise they want to remake the US into Christian Nationalism, corporate anarchy, guns in public, and oppressing their enemies within.
Lotfi Zadeh, the inventor of Fuzzy, used the example of how many bites out of an apple can you take before it is no longer an apple? To some of us too many bites have already been taken. Most still believe the US is still the US. Every day more people are coming to the "too many bites" side.
Fuzzy logic. Now might be a good time to learn about fuzzy logic. If the borders of the US and the name US exists then is that enough to state the United States is the United States. This is a fuzzy logic problem.
There is another lesson from the Dune series that is right up there: opposing sets of desires and morals mean gov enacting only one set will fail. 

Adams stated it thusly, "You can never have great gov because every lawsuit has a loser. You can only ever hope to enact good gov".
Anyone looking to somehow extend the life of the US for any lengthy period of time needs to establish a precedent for realizing competent, intelligent elected officials and judges. This won't fix the corruption but perhaps can extend the life of what's there. Hierarchy is built in. Can't fix it.
It is humbling and not cathartic to me to say that stupid people being unable to do things that require intelligence is obvious. 

Trump and Elon are idiots. But so is all of Congress. Alito reaching back to 14th Century law for a US majority opinion exposed the stupidity of the Supreme Court.
If there is one lesson one can learn from the Dune series then I would recommend this one:

Even if the universe is run by an incorruptible, benevolent super being the end result is still corruption because the implementation of that gov is done by they corrupted. Hierarchy doesn't scale.
I am arrogant enough to say that the era of hierarchy is over. Hierarchy doesn't scale. Absolute power corrupts absolutely is an indictment of hierarchy concentrating resources at the top that then fails due to corruption. We need to transition to mesh society, to Irreni World Scale.
Joss Whedon may have been onto something in Firefly predicting the Chinese and American governments will merge and form the Alliance. That would be a juggernaut the world could not deny. I'm not arrogant to say the Republican demise or Democratic demise of this country will be better.
The Democrats are selling BS that they can control corruption and make the trains run on time. That's  false hope. No one can predict the future of which imminent demise is worse: Republican or Democrat. One thing is for sure: anarchy is not possible. Other countries will swoop in.
Don't kid yourself that corruption can be contained. It can't. Greedy people always take too much. Further, once the US hits an inflection point of dysfunction then China, Russia, Saudi Arabia and every other enemy will take over.
Both parties are making a Frankenstein of Democracy. Both parties are unable to control the resulting Frankenstein. The best we can hope for with the Democrats is functioning oligarchy with the trains running on time. But don't kid yourself.
Anarchy is the difference between Trump 1.0 and 2.0. It is also the difference between the Democratic party and Republican party. The Democrats are just as responsible as Republicans for the rich getting richer since 2000, perhaps even more so because of the tech bro relationship.
Anarchism. The incompetent cabinet picks and presumably all other appointees by Trump represent something different than fascism. Fascism wanted the trains to run on time. Destroying the government is anarchy. The high school grads will crash the Treasury systems. The tech bros want anarchy.
False dichotomy. They are all rotten. Neither party is on my side. It's just the rate at which the government and society collapse is all the choice we have. It's oligarchy with the lot of them.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-04
----------------------------------------

Just a reminder that Trump's a liar, has no impulse control, and his 30 day agreement means absolutely nothing.
Here, have some art.
DDoS. Instead of blocking streets that provide cover for criminals and looting causing millions in damage, declare a  DDoS protest. Pick a web site and everyone just visits the web site endlessly all day. Mini-apps could be downloaded to automate . We need to use 21st Century protesting.
Blue States need to start doing this to Red States. We need an internal cold war.
Well, I followed the BLM stuff and people co-opted the demonstrations for looting and destruction. Perhaps a strategy to steer clear of this could be devised. Not sure how though. I guarantee the right will sabotage any such demonstrations going forward. Real pickle.
No, I mean, one could have a plan to test the military. From what I'm reading the military will only go along with it under very specific conditions. 

What I'm saying is be aware. Plan accordingly.
Just a reminder that Trump is looking for a "summer of BLM" protests type event to use as an excuse to invoke martial law. Whether the military goes along with that is anyone's guess.
Faith-based initiatives were implemented by Bush Jr. at the behest of Evangelical lobbying so they could prevent LGBTQ+ from adopting. Trump is not going to stop payments to Evangelical churches.
They are not shrinking  the gov. They are implementing austerity. Waste and shrinking are just euphemisms.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-03
----------------------------------------

Just a reminder that if one follows art, music, and beauty on social media then it follows you back.
For many years my Sunday morning tradition was to listen to "From The Top" on public radio. This show featured kids of all ages playing classical music. It is kinda weird after all these years watching and listening to kids play classical. Well met!

www.youtube.com/watch?v=TLQp...
Somebody needs to post where the alternate countries of products that compete with Canada and other tariff countries are. Follow the money. This is not a zero sum game.
I live in Maine. It is becoming clearer every day that if one wants to join any kind of resistance, then one needs to move to Canada. Or perhaps Mexico. I speak Spanish.  Decisions, decisions. It will be a sad day to have to move just to resist and save the US. At least what's  left of it.
If you are wondering why the Democrats are silent on Musk running amok with Treasury computer systems then you are this close to breaching your denial and cognitive dissonance:  Democrats want this. Wake up. Be the woke you imagine and admit the reality.
Whenever I think about thoughts and prayers, I think about all those prayers during the centuries of 50% death rate from the plague and nothing. You can, too. You can ask Christians about that nothing. My Sunday sermon I guess
Just a reminder I have all the solutions. The first step is to build a mesh society to supplant hierarchy. Join an MGO today.
I'll go one step further and remind people that the plague devastated Europe for 400 years with a 50% death rate. There is nothing but ourselves going to save us.
personality pull, noun: 1. when Youtube or other social media completely revamps a user's feed based on one click, leaving the user wandering if, in fact, their personality changed.

Clicked on one  Blazing Saddles clip, and now my feed is just 70s movie and TV clips. /shrug
Now would be a good time to get into the smuggling business. Instead of an underground railroad, use above ground drones. Our gov seems to be impotent in figuring out what the drones are. /shrug
There is no intellectual property in Irreni World Scale. Of course, initially, MGOs exist within existing gov's, but once those are dissolved, no IP.
Happy Sunday! Time for the world to classify the US as a rogue, terrorist State and implement economic sanctions. Gitmo is terrorism the same as shackling migrants. Prohibit tourism to the US.
Just a reminder that "capitalists" never lower prices. We saw this after the pandemic "supply chain" debacle. This gouging got called inflation. Congress did nothing but clutch their more costly pearls.
Time for the States to take a stand against taxation without representation and ignore the tariffs. Import directly and bypass the Federal gov. Resist. What's the Federal government going to do? Nothing. Sue. Tie them up in courts until Trump leaves office. Resist.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-02
----------------------------------------

I have done more than all Democrats to provide solutions. 

I wrote an amendment to create National Ballot Measures. Is it going to materialize?  The point is to be a thought leader. But then I guess that would require members of Congress to have original thoughts. 

irreni.social/the-national...
"The state of the world today is such that we have guided missiles and misguided men." - Martin Luther King Jr. 

Nothing has changed. We as a society have done nothing since the 1960s to rectify this obvious observation.
If one considers Twain's quote about members of Congress being idiots, that quote being over 100 years old,  apply these two facts to the rapid pace of technological advancement then it is obvious Democracy would collapse when run by idiots where high tech requires increasing intelligence to govern.
The say its not paranoia if someone is in fact out to get you. 

It is also not cynicism to accuse everyone in DC to be corrupt when, checks notes, they are.
"Suppose you were an idiot, and suppose you were a member of Congress; but I repeat myself." -Mark Twain

Democratic politicians are Lucy we Charlie Brown getting ball pulled every time. 

The country needs more Mark Twains. As far as I know there aren't any in the public square these days.
Or, or, or, fool me once, fool me a bezillion times by liberals in the public eye being red pilled like John Fetterman and shame on you. 

 One can discern using a preponderance of evidence AOC is only self-interested. Name one thing AOC has done while in office other than be a blowhard.
With the food apocalypse coming one might be frustrated at the limited freezer and storage space one has for food stores at current prices. 

I have the solution. Join and MGO. An MGO is community of 30 people pooling resources, including banking food staples. Join an MGO today. 

irreni.social
Ignore tariffs. Maine should bypass tariffs. Heating oil 25% more disproportionally affects the poor in Maine. Do business directly with Canada. What's Trump going to do, cry. Let's make Trump cry. #ignoretariffs #tariffs
Thoughts and prayers.
I'm going to make a couple of rhetorical predictions. 
1. AOC will be red pilled and run for President as Republican. 
2. The Catholic Church will be red pilled. 

What they have in common is attention seeking egos who love the celebrity limelight, want the money, and lust for power.
Yes, here's Hitchen's summarizing just some of what the Catholic Church needs to answer for.

youtu.be/cRsaxXrjk3w?...
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions. :) We don't just need to fix politics, but society and politics. Irreni World Scale is designed to build society and politics for the 21st Century.
----------------------------------------
2025-02-01
----------------------------------------

Whoa, some people will go to great lengths to avoid using "Gulf of America".
Checks notes, yup, it says right here that all words and no action is 100% cynicism making this projection and cynicism. 

The only acting your doing is gas lighting people that you care.
The ongoing gaming of scientific research papers is a natural outcome of "publish or perish". Of billions in grant money contingent on them. Of tenure. Of power. Of so many incentives other than the science itself.
This here is why you should be talking about Irreni World Scale and MGOs. Solutions over complaints about what is irrevocably broken.
And now part of AI training.
Fusion is perhaps 30 years out?
Irreni World Scale is the first social organizing system to manage tech. All projects must be studied responsibly before mass adoption. Join an MGO today!
Much of dystopian futures predicted by sci -fi is simply predicting that society just continues irresponsibly to advance tech. We'll, that's where are and have been. We don't even have an amendment banning the use of nukes. Trump could easily use them.
New tech then is like a time bomb that goes off every day. AI is not the only threat. Anti-aging and genetic engineering are two examples.  Imagine what happens if we double life spans with anti-aging? We are not ready.
Encryption codes are passive security like walls that can be knocked down. Two factor authentication is active. Soon, we may need three, four...who knows. One thing I do know is techbros  feel zero responsibility for unleashing new tech. It is just a game to them.
If one thinks of AI as just a continuum of faster, cheaper, then soon computing will get fast enough to break all encryption we have today. The clock is ticking on block chain and crypto. Cybersecurity could vanish overnight.
AI is just a continuation of tech advancement of Moore's law. CPU/GPU are super cheap as well as storage. We can now solve bigger problems. There is nothing novel in LLM.
It is worth pointing out that AI trains on existing information for regurgitation. If an LLM could reason, it wouldn't need to train. The "training" is monkey-see, monkey-do compiled across domains.
AI wars are coming. You will have no choice but have a robust AI running on your phone and everything to protect against AI. That will be the end result of "AI help".
denial, noun: 1. believing the Democrats are the opposition when in fact they are in on it and are just gaslighting you on occasion, see cognitive dissonance.

----------------------------------------
2025-01-31
----------------------------------------

Okay, AI generating scenes of Jeffery Epstein kissing Trump in parody? I think gawking is the word you are looking for. 

#AI #AIArt

www.youtube.com/watch?v=EjA5...
The inflation numbers and unemployment numbers are so cooked to prop up the powers that be that soon AI will be legal people with full employment and also representing 99% of wages and consumer spending.
Sending immigrants to Gitmo is desperation. Only two weeks in. They want riots now so they can declare martial law. Feels more like a pick-me girl cry for attention. Macho Man indeed.
1. Talk is cheap. 
2. AOC only does things her party overloads and corporate donors approve of. She's a whole owned subsidiary of Democratic leadership. 
3. Do the job and stop virtue signalling. 
4. We don't want excuses, we want results.
So I have a theory. When Microsoft rolled out its first social chatbot in the early 00s, people immediately started trolling it with not see content turning the bot into said same. Well, now that we know OpenAI and every other AI is training on our social media...history is repeating?
----------------------------------------
2025-01-30
----------------------------------------

Trump hasn't read or understood any of the executive orders he's signed. They are feeding him condom nonsense. At least with Biden, you got the feeling the people doing his work for him were telling him honestly and not dragging his a**.
Just a reminder that rounding up people when thousands are streaming across the border proves it is not about illegal aliens but domestic terrorism with the objective to enact martial law.
Trump wants to incite public outcry in the streets so he can declare martial law. He thinks going after kids will win him this.
In a netwotk hardware class in the 90s, a student asked why the ethernet circuitboard had black epoxy on some of the components. They used it to prevent the Chinese from reverse engineering in the 90s. Lesson: plan accordingly.
Just remember Google said something like 25% of their code was being written by LLM. 

Let that sink in.
"And this executive order, sir, commands the US military to invade California to turn on the water from Oregon." 

"Today, the President signed an executive order that halts all federal spending."
----------------------------------------
2025-01-29
----------------------------------------

So, if you read the comments here, one consensus is to let it all burn. This is the MAGA attitude. It is exactly the techbro, Libertarian plan. If the US burns it will hurt and kill many more in the world than the US. The US is too big to fail. There is no plan. Except Irreni. See pinned post.
I tried ChatGPT once. I asked it how much LP the back up generator my house would use if it ran for 3 days. The one line answer took 3 screens of legal disclaimer and untold qualifications. A friend later told me that you have  have to game ChatGPT to avoid the rigamarole. No I don't.
Midnight Sax - saxophone and Hammond B vibes to relax too. 

Been awhile since I've done one of these. Got Lava Lamp? Get one, if not. Staring at one while listening to music is a good way to lose your mind, in thought. 

#winamp
vimeo.com/1050999812
----------------------------------------
2025-01-28
----------------------------------------

This kind of costs-nothing, does nothing BS is only going to get more frequent.  Good time to start a pearl necklace co. because they are going to go  through them like red m&ms from so much clutching.
Got Divine Right of Kings? The Leader of the Democratic Party exclaiming "God is on the Throne" is a "can't beat 'um, join 'um", White Nationalist flag of surrender or dog whistle, your choice. It is an obvious promotion of monarchy, as obvious as Mush's salute. Lovely, monarchists and fascists.
Clichés, platitdes, and childish self-righteous indignation like AOC Nazi bashing is the extent of maximum effort that one can expect from the Democratic party. That should do it, right?
AI is just a brand with no definition from the dark ages, like say C or ASCII. In its childhood era software used cute animals and islands: Python & Java. Currently into heavy metal: Rust. I want Punk programming in Clash. Clash is the best programming brand.
Colombia just needs to pay 10% to another country to buy things and avoid the 25% tariff. I saw this as a movie plot once. It was called 48 hours.
Colombia has been graciously taking in Venezuelan refugees for years. If Trump takes action against Venezuela then Colombia will have even more. Trump didn't think through were he'd deport 12 million people too.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-27
----------------------------------------

I lost followers, they may be purging bots.
Think about this. All church donations are charitable donations. The church, perhaps, may spend 10% of that to help the poor. We'd all be better off just giving money to charities with less than 90% overhead. Religion is and always has been very very evil. The Vatican is very very rich.
I'm think more than a few followers have been bots as I'm losing followers. I just want to say, Thanks Bluesky! for the diligence!
Users have no way to distinguish any kind of validated AI versus scam AI. There is no Anti-Turing test to determine if an AI has been gamed. There is no warranty, there is no guarantee. Like Crypto, AI is just "trust me, I'm a techbro". Copilot could be taken over by malware and who's to know?
AI (LLM) is just software that has been branded. It is just automation that like all automation prior to it will put workers out of work. The complaint against what's being peddled using the AI brand is that it is untested. That's what's dangerous, it is gigo: garbage in garbage out.
Christianity and religion in general has always been about providing moral cover to do evil, especially for the State and the rich. It only ever practices what it preaches around the fringes, just enough to keep the myth alive.
The problem is no is offering solutions to failed Democracy. Certainly not Demcrats. I am. Join a mesh node today. Join an MGO.
irreni.social
The lessons of predicted dystopian futures from unbridled tech mixing with unbridled capitalism were not learned. Instead, we turned Dune into a movie to make money.
Did you know that a mesh node in Irreni has a year's supply of food, water, and electricity? Join an MGO today. 
irreni.social
Religion needs to be removed as a legal entity. Religion should be organized as with any other nonprofit. There is no reason to recognize religion in law.
Democracy is done. We need to transition to mesh design that replaces hierarchy.
irreni.social
The clock is ticking on when he names the Washington Monument, "Trump Tower".
----------------------------------------
2025-01-26
----------------------------------------

Deporting 500 people is nothing compared how many came across the border this week. There is a reason they are focusing on deporting before stopping 100% at the border.

Terrorism. Trump is a terrorist terrorizing us.
*sigh* Since 2012 and the Syrian civil war started there have been, checks notes, boats crossing under the most deadly of conditions to reach Europe. But sure, let's pretend coyotes won't think about boats.
Reality, noun: 1. deporting immigrants back to a country where, checks notes, they migrated from. 

No matter how many immigrants they deport by plane per day  more will come across the border by foot per day. 

It is all just performative. Deportation is not a solution.
If Trump wants to use nukes say to, you know, nuke hurricanes then who is going to stop him? Pete Hegseth? The cabinet picks have one requirement:  follow Trump's  orders without thought. The Republican party is full-throating this. It's not just Trump. 

www.washingtonpost.com/weather/2020...
Traditional masculinity has a name, machismo. This was shortened to macho. Another hit by the Village People was, "Macho Man."  So I guess dancing to "Macho Man" is a soon to be Republican thing.  /shrug
Seriously, why would a President have this power? "he Office of Management and Budget (OMB) serves the President of the United States."

So Congress in 1939 ceded the actual spending of the money they allocate to the President. How is that power checked? It's not. The OMB should be run by Congress.
In my line of work, software, if one doesn't correctly identify the root cause then a fix is impossible. Congress is the root cause of Trump, i.e. the overly powerful Presidency. Unless we have the courage to address the root cause then our Democracy will never be fixed.
If Congress ran FEMA, if Congress ran the FDA, if Congress ran the NIH, then none of what Trump is doing would be possible. Further, if they had final responsibility then their incompetency and idiocy would be exposed instead of just the Presidents.
We sill never have a future with Democracy unless Congress re-takes the power and responsibility it has ceded the Presidency. If not then Congress has no check to balance the Presidency that controls all the spending.
Congress should have final authority on all spending, not the President. It makes far more sense to spread that responsibility out over 435 people instead of 1. The responsibility final authority would better inform them in continuing legislation.
The President's sole responsibility should be commander-in-chief. The President should not be administering FEMA. Congress should be. They are too lazy to do their jobs. They don't want the attention that comes with responsiblity and expose their incumbency.
If the objective is to restore democracy then Congress needs to take back 100% of all the responsibility they've passed onto the President since WWII. For example, the President shouldn't be deciding id foreign aid includes condemns as has been the case since Raygun.
I despise the fact that Congress is getting a free pass in all this. As long as all the blame falls on the Presidency their incumbency is insured. How can a system of checks of three co-equal branches work when one branch nullifies itself?
It isn't only giving all their responsibility to the President that allows Congress to have perpetual incumbency.  Block voting prior to the 1990s Congress was less common. They figured out that by voting as one block they could all hide their cowardice and never face public scrutiny.
Why does the President have this power? No one stops to ask this question. This power is not in the Constitution. It was given to the Presidency by Congress. Congress is ultimately responsible for hiding; skirting responsibility for incumbency by legislation ceding power since WWII.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-25
----------------------------------------

What are we six years old? Grow up. This is the same exact false bravado one sees on the other site. This kinda crap us pointless.
AOC is this. My opinion, she's just progressive washing herself for future opportunities. Make her your champion at your own peril. She's as corrupt as the rest.
Good Evening!
Here, have a statue.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-24
----------------------------------------

AOC is a coward who couldn't stand up to Nancy Pelosi, ever. She's just brand building.
Answer is long and complicated. Thread to pull: social study on comic books. At the turn of the 20th century men were starting to leave farms. Then two wars. A cocktail of impotency set in and comic book heroes were born and dealt with impotency feelings.
That was a lark. It was an employee submission for a contest where the employee was going for something Star Wars. Story is told in a book, "Founders at Work". They never meant it.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-23
----------------------------------------

Congress is getting a free pass. How can Trump create all these ex. orders like gender assignments? Because Congress ceded resposibilty/power to the Pres. for decades. Not in the Constitution, President is just Commander  in Chief.
It's not just that Trump pardoned a two-life-sentences drug dealer, but that he did under pressure from the Tech bros.
So what's the going rate for buying $TRUMP got get a pardon? For a Mexican Drug Cartel insurance? Asking for America's enemies.
So an actual drug dealer serving two life sentences gets pardoned because, checks notes, he's white, but Trump wants the death penalty for other drug dealers because, checks notes, they are minorities.  /shrug
And this one. Enjoy! 
irreni.social/nature-versu...
You might find this essay of particular interest:
irreni.social/complexity/
Hi! In your YouTube video "Capitalism is Running out of Time" I commented that solving the bigger problems is my pay grade. 

You can scroll through my feed as well as visit the web site if interested. 

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-01-22
----------------------------------------

The reason there aren't any MAGAts on Blusky is that conservativism in modern times requires bullying, bigotry, and meaness. Thanks, Bluesky, for terms of use that require some public decency.
Again, there are no guardrails. The leading Democrats sat their today. Would you have sat next to those monsters?
If you watch Jonathan Pie's assessment of the rise of Trump his conclusion is the world's governments are going to collapse. This is a very stark possibility. Which is why I invented Irreni World Scale. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=R3XO...
I don't get this need to pile on. Especially when there is no ad revenue based on click count on Bluesky. From a #neurodivergent perspective amplifying s***y behavior is not healthy. Maybe it is just a bad habit from other platforms when making money.  /shrug
"It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness. " - Ancient Chinese Proverb

Are we going to sit around for four years and clutch pearls when childish bullies act as such or do something? 

Join an MGO. A MGO is a self-sustaining group of 30 people. Real independence. 

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2025-01-21
----------------------------------------

The evidence that US Democracy has been dying has been heavily researched since Raygun. America was overrun by the wealth it generated after WWII and then became the world's super power. The meager checks and balances of 1787 were no match, not even close. We lack the courage to do better.
When I first started do research for Irreni I read Early American history . One surprise is that the US Constitution was an affirmation not an invention. The same can be said of today. Amused to Death is Roger Water's 1990s political take. Trump is an affirmation.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=21H2...
"We need to reestablish reality." 
"What people like this lot want is chaos...unpredictability...there's an enormous amount of power in that form them."

www.youtube.com/watch?v=wcEi...
That's why I invented Irreni World Scale. The US government has been collapsing for decades.
irreni.social
...and fleece the governments by getting them to back it.
Just an observation that we are only Bluesky and Youtube away from no platforms of meaningful  resistance. I have no idea how Bluesky is funding itself and no faith in Youtube. Cuban offering to fund Bluesky is yet another billionaire.
Irreni World Scale is the solution you are looking for. Hierarchy (nations, corporations, etc ) don't scale because money concentrates at the top. Irreni is a mesh design. Join an MGO mesh node today!
irreni.social
AOC posting snarky things on all the social media platforms, well her staff anyway, is all the resistance we can expect from the Democratic party.
I wouldn't want to be a journalist right now. The fact that one could easily be Khashoggi'ed any time is chilling. Especially considering the Saudi's paid off Trump with $2 billion years ago.
I remember every Star Trek series I watched had an episode of the computer being taken over. #AIWars The tech bros learned nothing from sci-fi and are about to unleash AI hacking. You'll need AI just to go online.
Just reading about Biden's pardon of Fauci. Got me thinking history where people could buy their way out of "justice". Could someone like Fauci buy a few million in $TRUMP crypto and avoid being targeted? Don't see why not given where we are at.
I have no information about the attack medium is under. Just an observation that as generative AI is being programmed to write code, then they will get very good at hacking. Think Randomware on steroids. #AIWars
Happy MLK Day! Well, we should be having a conversation about how if a law is passed, is upheld by the Supreme Court, then it goes into effect. We should not be wanting a dictator.
The legal system takes time. All that is required for the triumph of evil is to inundate the legal system with crimes at a rate much much faster than the legal system can sustain. 

I'm pretty sure that's one thing Trump can and will succeed at.
I started Irreni World Scale when I graduated high-school. It is a four-hundred year plan because instant gratification doesn't work with large scale projects. This requires Democracy to sustain longer than the next five minutes. Ugh. 
irreni.social
There are no guardrails. Trump just made 32 Billion on a pump-and-dump $TRUMP coin. Not a peep by the DC crowd. It is not America. It's corruption government versus us. Forget words like oligarchy, kleptocracy, etc. They are unnecessary. It is just corruption that the D's and R's are both in on.
I've been trying to figure out a way to explain this simply, here goes.

Imagine if governments looked the other way when people created lotteries with a fiat currency they created and staked with just enough real dollars to have an occasional pay out.
It's an NFT without the ape pictures. All crypto is memecoin, including Bitcoin. The difference is that billionaires staked Bitcoin in 2008 with billions of real money. Memecoins are not staked. Bitcoin bros will dazzle and baffle with BS, memecoin bros don't bother.
Lol.

AI, noun: 1. Software with untested results. Engineers love this because they hate testing. Corporations love it because testing is expensive.
So are we still claiming to be a country of law and order? Asking for an enemy.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-20
----------------------------------------

Trump is going to launch an pump-and-dump scheme as often as kittens meow.  Republicans will never enforce the Emoluments Clause.
I wonder if Stallone, Voight, and Gibson are going to Hollywood to finally convince Hollywood to ditch the tropes that US politicians are anything other than clowns and to quit basing plots around respecting, admiring or saving US politicians in any way shape or form. Cast fire hydrants.
Thanks.
Place your bets now. China has a billion people. The US not even a half billion. The bet is this: which country will be more authoritarian with a 1 billion population: China or the US?
Now is a good time to remind us Raygun gave us China today, that great anti-communist he was. In the late 80s the Raygun administration couldn't decide whether to fight communism with business or politics. They decided on both. Russia got politics, China got business. Thanks for both,  Raygun.
Americans are this close to understanding we don't live in America as an idea or experiment anymore. You have all kinds of 'INOs, or "in name only",  like with RINO, "Republic in name only".

We are all now AINO: American in name only.

No one is going to save you. Join an MGO.

irreni.social
If you want to read about the pathological and psychotic US government doing business and not doing business with China simulataneously, then you can read up on the hardware, and network switch company Huawei. That drama has been going on for decades. 

www.reuters.com/business/med...
If a Chinese owned company is prohibited from storing US user data then why was TikTok allowed to operate in the US in the first place?
Just a reminder, corporations are legal people. Up next, Congress passing laws naming individual US citizens traveling abroad because Congress says  they are a threat to national security. TikTok was not shown to have broken the law. Passing laws against perceived threats is just fascism.
Ban me once, shame on them. Ban me twice, shame on me.
I hear Bruce Springsteen is touring. I'm also under the impression he no longer performs, "41 Shots", due to pressure by the NYC police. It's too bad. It's a constant reminder in my playlist that cops having impunity to kill is un-American. No trial, no due-process, just execution.
American History: America's Destruction

It is oft repeated on social media that America's demise started with Citizen's United in 2010, unleashing unlimited corporate money on political campaigns when that decision declared money is speech and protected under the 1st Amendment.
The world is decaying because hierarchy doesn't  scale. Resources concentrate at the head. Corruption reigns. Ti
me to ditch hierarchy in favor of mesh networks.
irreni.social
Technically I goofed on this poster. Politics comes from the word head in Greek, meaning patriarchy, heirarchy and nations. Irreni replaces politics with a mesh of micro-governing orgranizations, MGOs. No head, just pears.
No one is on deck. This is no politician, no billionaire, no CEO, no Governor, no one is going to save America. You have to save yourself. 

Join and MGO! 
irreni.social
No what?*

*Join an MGO! 

irreni.social
Good Evening!
----------------------------------------
2025-01-19
----------------------------------------

You can't get ahead by staying even. That's why I invented Irenni World Scale. This is a mesh of MGOs to dissolve hierarchy, including nations. Join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Once the Orange molester is out of the picture, the Supreme Court will reverse Presedential immunity. Because they are just as corrupt as the Pluggedhead  Pumpkin.
Read an oped white-washing Justice Barret. She will forevah be a filthy liar on Roe. Voted to overturn Roe & Presidential immunity permanently makes her despicable  evil. Not about vote counts breaking with conservatives.
zappy friday! Today I learned if I shut down my Apple laptop it doesn't unregister from Bluetooth devices the same as if you turn off Bluetoon on the laptop. Thanks Apple. I had to reboot just to turn off Bluetooth.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-18
----------------------------------------

Over decades I've collected 10s of thousands of art and photos from the web. Very occasionally I collect video art. Here's one.
In honor of Tik Tok going away, here's an early video from that platform. 

Sound uP!
These are actors!
ByteDance should give American Tiktok to Mexico. Just think of all the deportation cross-over, and all the Americans suddenly learning Spanish. Make America Greet Mexico. ha!
It is really quite pathetic when our  manly billionaires afraid of Trump are bending the knee and giving him money and yet the female President of Mexico is mocking him. We need a better class of billionaires. Men with courage, spines, and guts enough, checks notes, to wear a hat. Bunch of sissies.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-17
----------------------------------------

You wanna know what's weird like David Lynch? Irreni Weird Scale. Err, Irreni World Scale that rebuilds society and governments using a mesh structure instead of hierarchy. No nations, no corporations, just mesh nodes and projects. If you want to get your weird on join an MGO today! 
irreni.social
Judge, "Let's see, if I rule that an emoji nullifies meaning, then if someone sends me a death threat with an eggplant emoji, then  it doesn't count as a death threat. Nope, ixnay on the emojinay defense."
Who doesn't want a free lunch?
I work on wastewater scanning right now, specifically a sun burst chart for 16S.
Mmmm, arguably so are most of us on social media to some extent . In the not to distant future, AI will pass an easy Turing test and be posting the bulk of social media content.
I see too many people white-washing the genocidal financeer, Biden. This is no different from him being white-washed for the 1993 crime bill that funded 300,000 more cops and destroyed millions of black and minority lives for Marijuana. The UN HRC needs to indict.
Harry Truman made his reputation and got on FDR's radar by prosecuting war profiteering during the war. That's what should always be done. But, our nation is too corrupt for this to have ever happened afterward. This nation will fail due to corruption.
Pelosi claimed the reason for not prosecuting war crimes and profiteering was so the nation could heal when the exact opposite was the expected result, obvious to even a six-year-old. Let people get away with murder then they will murder even more.  Pelosi is worse than Trump. She paved the way.
Pelosi gave us Trump. By not holding Republicans accountable, she opened the door for the likes of Trump. If she had prosecuted all the Republicans then most of them would be in jail, like the 1/6 insurectionists. Them being the rich and powerful, like Cheney with Haliburton.
1. ACA written by insurance companies
3. Pelosi, worst speaker ever for this as well as in 2006 unilaterally  blocking all war crime and profiteering investigations into Bush administration.
and now I block you. good night.
I'm neurodivergent. You reading emotions into my comments that don't exist. I had two points:
1. visual reading text is not accessible to everyone as people assume.  
2. language evolves, your comment appeared to be policing language evolution.
Are you suggesting the PhD's can't be trolls? Also, 300 words means terse. I could have have said reading the printed word but was at limit. Machines read as well. They don't have brains.
Perhaps it needs a fan fic take. The many ideas of shadows being simulation and such are worth pondering. Last I checked the Zelazny family was difficult to deal with. /shrug Perhaps a video game then.
Sadly, I think Zelazny's treatment of women, like most of those in his generation, was fairly bad. They were mostly just props like with comic books. Sensibilities have moved on.
You are a troll. Listening and listening to a book are different things. Yet you posted a meme about just listening. The dictionary in the future will include listening to books as a form of reading. I sequence DNA. We call it reading.
Banning Tiktok and so many other US government actions are telling us the US government is not for the people. It is ignore the people and for the corporations. Voting is just something they use to distract us with. Studies have shown laws do not reflect public opinion, just lobbyists.
There is a race right now: the push to give people education for life, universal basic income, and universal healthcare versus the response by capitalists to rush to build out AI and put people out of a job. The US gov. is all in on AI.  AI will turn high $ jobs like software into cheap labor.
If everyone has a million dollars than the value of a million dollars is nothing. This is the argument against UBI. Capitalism is contingent on cheap labor. Give people UBI and then no one works the fields. We need to solve the cheap labor problem.
Languages evolve. People are evolving the usage of reading to include listening to books. Given how large of percentage of people have reading limitations that's going to be the reality. I have zero respect for the language police.
So, Biden today signed an order opening up public lands for AI data centers. Why? Because AI is capitalists automating jobs away. That's it. There is no other reason for it. And our government is going all in, doubling down, full spead ahead,  d**n the climate.

Join an MGO. Today.
irreni.social
The problem with this take is that speaking language with humans has been around for 200,000 years of evolution. Reading has only been around as general population activity for a couple of hundred years. Evolution hasn't caught up with reading.
I think it is more complicated. Zelazny started his own publishing co. when book companies colluded to demand 300 pages+ for sci-fi/fantasy, the Amber series is only a compendium. The same is true for Hitchhikers guide. At least the book industry hasn't attenuated like the music industry.
So the Biden administration just admitted that they believe just as many Hamas soldiers have joined and replaced those that have been killed. It's not hard.
This. LIfe-long free education, universal basic income (UBI), and Universal Healthcare. This would put America on the right track. Not whatever is coming head on.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-16
----------------------------------------

Trump wants to topple the government so people cry out for martial law and he becomes Putin. The plan is really that stupid and that obvious. Oh, and of course sell of the country for support from the oligarchs. America first...on the auction block.
Happy 2's day! Just a reminder, as the incompetence apocalypse is upon us that I have all the solutions. First thing to do is to join an MGO. Take your life into your own hands, along with 30 other people. Become a unit of survival and strength. The solutions are out there. 

irreni.social
Trump created a charity for children with cancer and took all that money for himself. How are we normalizing this?
The puppet theater/charade Congress is putting on with these confirmation hearings is an insult to everyone. Everyone knows they are just doing it for media attention. They already made up their minds.  However, they are denying hardworking Tick Tok creators the same media attention. Just f off.
Washington and Jefferson: slave owners, monsters and dead.  I respect their work to create Democracy. You know why? Because I'm not naive, I can hold both disrespect and respect opinions simultaneously. Gaiman is alive, f him. His books are not relevant to me, no respect. Purity = unrealistic.
Except Fetterman. Forgot to add that for the new Manchan'erian candidate. Fetterman is not happy with all the money from the Democratic party corruption, he wants some sweet, sweet right wing corruption mullah too.
Republicans voted for the lowest,  untrustworthy, amoral, immoral, filthy, rotten,  rat bag, degenerate for President. Why pretend the hearings matter? None of his picks are as bad as Trump. Of course Republicans will approve them all and no Democrat will. Just vote and spare us the charade.
I honestly don't get it. Why would anyone expect a serial philander who cheated on his own three wives, paid of porn stars, has over 20 women accusing him sexual assault, a constant liar, a grifter, a fraud, a tax chear, serial bankrupter, and a contract welch to pick decent, respectable people.
As despicable and unqualified as Peter Hegseth  is, his boss is even more despicable and unqualified. Sometimes I think even the left has normalized just how much of a monster Trump is. We should do a comparison with him and Neil Gaiman. Just to refresh people on how totally disgusting Trump is.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-15
----------------------------------------

It would really awesome if some UN agency stepped in and gave money/resources to LA fire response  because Republicans f with their FEMA aid.
At this point we need UBI+UH. Universal healthcare us not an option.
False. False because party is not the root cause. Corruption is. Corruption never fixes itself. This nation will collapse. Spewing nonsense like this is irresponsible.
Good Evening, here have some art!
My take away reading about Neil Gaiman. He's a White Christian nationalist, incel, mgtow, role model.
1.  Woman beater.
2. Rapist. 
3. Has women call him master, he calls them slaves.
4. Wife stayed married to him with kid. 
5. Total impunity.
He's the next monster type Republicans will run.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-14
----------------------------------------

Happy Monday! Sadly, this will not keep up the multiple billion dollar data centers being built. The purpose of AI is to automate jobs, not help humanity. Just profits.
Join Irreni World Scale. MGOs are a mesh network that replaces hierarchies, including nations.
irreni.social
Are we ready to address Climate Change yet or are we still going to sit around protesting? Join and MGO today! 

irreni.social/be-a-climate...
Good Evening! A Wee Bit O' Fun! A cute Winamp song using math words. You really did a number on me. You wanted me to kiss your axis. Silly fun! Enjoy! 

theshrubs3.bandcamp.com/track/equati...

vimeo.com/1046256472
----------------------------------------
2025-01-13
----------------------------------------

The state is no substitute for parents. The hard work is fixing American families and societies. The performative only work that does nothing is requiring IDs for porn. Irreni World Scale has solutions for fixing society. Join and MGO.
When I was in college I attended a seminar on defining porn. It can't be done. The oft cited, "I know it when I see it", definition still stands. This is ultimately misogyny policing women. Standards of how much "skin" one can show don't exist. Bush attorney general covered up statues in DC.
Let's talk free speech. Is Meta going to allow porn? I just read where Florida now requires ID for all porn access to prevent children accessing porn. Pornhub says this is impractical, blocks Florida, losing money. What's really going on is Conservative speech censoring, not free speech.
Here, have some comedy!

www.youtube.com/watch?v=moYi...
Things that never happen in real life.

Q: "Why'd you become a Christian."
A: "Pascal's Wager." 
@professorplink.bsky.social 

youtu.be/PofALxC98jw
This was predicted at the time the ACA was passed because it was a bill written by insurance companies for insurance companies. This is also why United Health Group is the fifth largest Fortune 100 company. Preying on peoples health for profit.
Nations and hierarchies are always going to funnel resources to the top where the people controlling are corrupted.  Irreni World Scale expands resources to projects of desire, from local to global. Nations are failed social structures of scale. It is time to unlearn nations and learn meshes.
This is the micro-governing organization unit, or MGO. This is a mesh structure and not a hierarchy structure. MGOs can combine from 2-maximum number of MGOs in order to implement projects of desire, including responding to climate change. Desire always includes survival.
This tension is most effectively resolved by creating the smallest powerful collective of greatest power. This can be further broken down to the smallest power collective of maximum survival rate. These survival units can then band together as atomic units to work on projects of desire.
We all depend on the greater society to create greater things and this will never change, the ability to control nature will be collective effort. This dependency of desire juxtaposed with any desire is possible sets up a tension.
One of the fundamental ideas within Irreni is we are moving from forced nature society to a desired society as technology provides increasing capability to control nature, including genetic engineering. We can't all agree upon what's to desire.
Got sacrifice? Climate change response is going to require sacrifice albeit ongoing disasters or voluntary life style changes, like going vegan. Democracy has no capability to engage shared sacrifice. Politicians promise benefit, not sacrifice, to get elected. Democracy has to go. 
irreni.social
So NYC introduces congestion pricing, and NYC financial businesses are demanding return-to-office. Our collective insanity gets bigger by the minute.

finance.yahoo.com/news/jpmorga...
Do ribs have eyes?
Just a reminder if you follow art, it will follow you. Or, or, or put yourself in the way of beauty.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-12
----------------------------------------

Well, I found the origin of the Bluesky name. It's a TV show. But what TV show, that's your mystery!
Pretty sure that's plan for failure. As Toffler said, we need learn, unlearn, and relearn. Relearn mesh governing versus today's nations and heir arches of corruption.
Happy Saturday! This just reason 1,488,003 that nations and hierarchies have to go, join an MGO today!
tragedy, noun: 1. developing a super-power of undetectable, passive-aggressive sarcasm during childhood only to have everyone get it for free* with the advent of the web because sarcasm doesn't translate. 2. see cheesy. 

*Except when calling people sparky or skippy.
Jonathan Pie laser coherent political light.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=_R19...
Myth-takes. A time honored religious practice for baffling and dazzling.
What are the chances that Maine, where I live, would be the main front in a war? Wasn't on my Bingo card when I bought in 2018.
Could've been a one word admonishment.  You know, baby steps and all.
Sadly the Democratic party spent money on Republicans in two cases: to bock a  progressive and to promote the most ridiculous MAGAt they thought was easily defeated. To whit, the party may have known about her switch as some ploy. Because the s***.
What this exposes is that corporate America and capitalism in general have always been fairweather value systems. They go where the money wind blows. He who has the gold fans the winds.
Generative AI (LLM), noun: 1. The ultimate attempt to either prove or disprove GIGO (garbage in, garbage out). 2. The new 2020s credit-default-swap of mixing high risk with low risk info as a bundle, and creating a financial bubble.
Good evening!
An MGO is a campus of thirty people. It has a years supply of food, water, electricity along with shelter for all 30 people. It has a farm. It has cybersecurity. It is akin to a spaceship designed to withstand a vacuum, but of government not atmosphere. Join one. 
irreni.social
The Nonsense at the top won't miss your paying attention to it. And you can't stop the daily fire hose about to be unleashed to create chaos. What you can focus is on is you local environment. Join an MGO and learn how to self-govern. 
irreni.social
Irreni World Scale is whole Earth organization: no nations, no hierarchies; just a flat system of mesh networks working together, much like cells in a body. We will never have whole Earth projects until we eliminate nations. We will never eliminate nations until we eliminate hierarchies.
This means we need two prongs to address climate change: disaster management and climate management. We need to mitigate inevitable natural disasters while the management system is built out, over hundreds of years. 

Instant gratification is what we expect but is killing us.
Earth needs to shift to long term planning on the order of hundreds and thousands of years. We can't do that with existing nations and hierarchies. Yelling at Democracies will fix nothing. Converting hierarchy to mesh governments will.
Effective Climate management is going to take 400 years, 20 generations. One of the many problems with climate change advocacy is the emergency implies emergency response. Wrong. Things like switching to vegetarian diets planet wide are going to take generations. Instant gratification it is not.
His hat tip to Eric shows who really wrote this piece, or more likely who paid a writer to have Eric spew is usual nonsense.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-11
----------------------------------------

Thought experiment. I live in Maine. If Denmark takes Maine in one year, then how many Americans move to Maine for free health care. All of them? :)
The "free hand of the market" is fanning the flames of LA and climate change by demanding new megawatt power plants  every day for AI.  Live by the capitalism sword, die by it.
I love the name of the sword.
Insurance, you pay into it and then get denied. Insurance companies are going to cry, "Oh we don't have enough money to pay everyone for the LA Fires."

Terms and conditions apply.
And, also have some Art!
Here, have a video.
I wrote about systemic murder by the medical industry back in 2020, namely Oxy. People die every year because of Oxy overdose due to over proscribing. It is not just health insurance killing Americans by denying claims.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-10
----------------------------------------

Climate management requires all humans working together. Impossible with nations of petty jealousy and corrupt nations and hierarchies. That's why Irreni World Scales does away with nations and uses a mesh governing design.
irreni.social
Irreni World Scale, of course. We need to leave our comfort zone and join MGOs.
I've been on this app a couple of weeks now and liking it. We all knew it was never about free speech. Bluesky policy of respecting human dignity and decency means no MAGAts are here. Excellent.
Someone was opining that there  aren't enough  videos on here. So, here's one.
Did somebody say disco? Early disco was performed by funk artists. That's why I feel Love.

vimeo.com/983669959
You know, I left X for a reason. There was something there I wanted to walk away from. Can we just not?
Until we are ready to unlearn Democracy and learn Irreni, unlearn hierarchy and learn mesh, nothing is going to change.
Good Evening. A mood.
There is no reason why Meta/Facebook could not have both the moderated system and the un-moderated. They just didn't do it.
And for the record, the reason anyone can create currency in Irreni is because currency is made obsolete. With the Internet currency is irrelevant. We can just barter. Irreni relies first on bartering that is set out in contracts. Currency doesn't favor the common person.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-09
----------------------------------------

I bring up Crypto because it is the only time in recent history that the technology community has felt motivated to even think about weighing on social innovation. And that social innovation was nothing more than a rip-off.

We need to do better.
Cypto had nothing to do with blockchain and a better fiat currency than the Fed. It had everything to do with turning billions of dollars staked into even more billions in returns. And now they want Bitcoin backed by the Federal Reserve.
Crypto currency is simply the largest scam created for parking free money at 0% interest after the Fed lowered the interest rate to 0%. Rich people took billions of real dollars and staked Crypto. This created the multi-level marketing scam where there is real money for the insiders.
Imagine arguing that replacing fossil fuels with solar power was all that was needed to fix climate change. Nothing else. That's Crypto-currency. Irreni has a currency component, everyone is allowed to create currency. That's not a solution though. That concept is part of a much greater solution.
In 2008 Bitcoin was born to provide a financial solution to the recession. That's how it was sold. It was not a solution. It was always a scam. Why? Because inventing a currency is not a solution. The entire currency ecosystem would need be redesigned with it. The existing one doesn't work Bitcoin.
We are within five years of having usable consumer robots and no consumers to buy them because we refuse to use our intellect to innovate society.

irreni.social
Engineering is engineering. Irreni World Scale is 100% applying engineering principles so society and has no ideology. It is about replacing nations and hierarchies. It is not about abortion, gun rights. I just don't understand why other engineers refuse to engage.
As I'm reading the CES reviews  I'm happy I can use Bluesky as a form of RSS Reader. 

I'm also reminded that the brain power in this country is happily rolling a long inventing better tech at breakneck speed and not applying any brain power to social problems. 

Except me, of course.

irreni.social
Woot! Now you know why my hacker news rep is in the -20,000 range. I'm always wrong and lazy. But, write JavaScipt I must today.
Ooof, context to JavaScipt: take the verbosity of Java crossed with the worst parts of Perl and Bash and mix in the worst build system called npm and it's 10 million dependencies, further mixing promises and functional programming with procedural programing, all because why not.  /shrug
Capitalism cheapens everything. Commodity is the end game.
Happy 2's days! Just a reminder that I have all the solutions. Irreni World Scale is the first society designed to scale planet-wide. Dissolves nations and hierarchy without scrubbing. Time to quit complaining and start building. Join an MGO!
irreni.social
Religion, noun: 1. Tribalism and all barbaric life that goes with unthinking.
Good Evening!
----------------------------------------
2025-01-08
----------------------------------------

The the rich get richer the police state gets nearer.
A fellow Hoosier! Although I only group up there.
Well, after the Facebook announcement to remove fact checking, allow political content, and curb meditation, then  Blusky should get ready for caravans of immigrants.
Ann Landers once quipped that Television was proof that we'd rather look at anything else than each other. AI is proof that corporate America would rather invest billions AI than in humans.
If AI wants my blessing then they need to provide a filter across all of the Internet to remove any videos of Donald Trump for the next for years wherever I go on the Internet. 

Do that and I'll co-sign AI.  :)
Awesome painting, really draws you in for appreciation.
Got tired? This is my go to test to tell.
Good stuff. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=655_...
Tribalism is 200,000 years old.

TLDR;  Civilization is difficult, hard work easily undermined by the lowest characters appealing to unthinking, lazy 200,000 year-old behavior.
Apologies, sarcasm doesn't always translate on the Internet. Agree 100%.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-07
----------------------------------------

On the other hand, corporate email communications have looked like they were written by ChatGPT since email came into existence.
2016.  I grabbed this from social media. Seems a good re-post today.
And that's why I invented Irreni World Scale! A mesh design to replace hierarchy! 
irreni.social
Democracy dies in denial. 99% of all felony convictions end in plea deals, not trials as required by the US Constitution. Just this on measure means Democracy is dead. It has been this way for decades because our court system doesn't scale in design.
Wrong, I am not nor will I ever be a Trump supporter.
I will give historical Republicans some policy credit: don't kill the goose that lays the golden eggs. That goose being the middle class. This is what separates the Never-Trumpers, previous Republicans from today's. Today is full throttle just make the rich richer.
The absurdity of representation scaling to hundreds of billions has been espoused for decades by one party: the Republicans. Republicans regularly dismiss the United Nations as a concept as being absurd.  They just don't ask at what size does this apply to the US.
Mesh networks to replace hierarchy must take place now. If not, the suffering we are about to see unfold will be horrific.
In the vacuum of any competing identity, then the nation will turn right  because people need identity. The best stabilization we can hope for in our existing system is a left tribe to fight the right . Make no mistake, it will be a tribe and not intellectual and not civilized.
Christian Nationalism is the tribalism the right is going to run with as there are no alternatives. CN will assume a historical church state tribe letting monied interest run freely. What tribe can the left dig up? None. That's where we are at.
People think that our politcal problems can be resolved. They cannot because the design doesn't scale. We are incoherent and absurd governing because the design failed. Electing new politicians can't help.
We can't manufacture identity for millions of people. No identity means no reprentation is possible. This identity problem is a breaking point of scale. The Constitution doesn't scale to 100 million.
The lack of any intelligent policy identity in politics today leads to the most basic form of identity: tribalism. Tribalism is violent. It pairs well with religion, the most established form of tribalism, unthinking and uncaring. Violence is imminent whenever identity is tribal.
We must realize that on 01/06, it is time to move on. Mesh society must replace hierarchy society that is too easily and always corrupted. Start an MGO today.
irreni.social
Democrats no longer represent the worker, and neither do Republicans. Both parties represent donors exclusively. Corruption never fixes itself, it just stays the same or gets worse. Trump is going sell out America to the maximum he can. There is no coming back from that.
The absurdity will lead to politicians like Trump, completely absurd. The solution would be agreed upon minimal identities. Neither party has a national identity, just a national anti-identity to hate. That's the state the America.
What happens with incoherent systems is that they become absurd. On any issue, a representative can have thousands of voters on different sides, like with guns. Any vote then is absurd
American democracy, noun: 1. The incoherent belief that one person can represent 300 million. 2. The incoherent belief that one party can represent 150 million. 3. The incoherent belief a representative can represent 700,000.

Democracy is incoherent.
Yeah, join an MGO. :)
----------------------------------------
2025-01-06
----------------------------------------

So it is becoming apparent that Trump's "billions" are worthless or Melania was cut out of the will. 

Also, here, have a painting.
First rule of writing, write to your audience. I reread my feed. #neurodivergent
"Criticism is easy, solutions are hard."

Gravestone of America
Democracy is dead people.
I grew up into 70s and we had classic rock radio stations then playing music from the 60s.
I pay decent money every year for Bangor news. I'm not paying for every medium, substack, news outlet, YouTube channel, podcast, and every other subscription under the paywall sun. We need to go back to the ancient news model of syndication,  like AP pre-1990. Create syndicates, people.
Please ad paywall disclamer.
It has never been lost on me that public Christians in this country hated Carter's  character but loved Raygun, Bush, Bush and Trump. 

religion, noun: 1. moral cover for the immoral for 10% of your income.
A good puzzle picture. The red part is the easy warm-up phase, and water is always a challenge.
This contradiction means that truth or correct answer can not be the objective of humanity but quality of life. The good news is that ideology focuses on truth and correctness. Ideology then can be mostly implemented distinct from engineering as long as both adhere to the least ideology possible
Life is a contradiction that is not solved, only balanced. That contradiction is that the individual wants 100%  control over their life , and humanity wants 100% control over their life for the group benefits.
To whit, Irreni as an engineering system enforces the minimal ideology for humans to maximize social group benefit. Further it maximizes freedom by focusing on the common life of the MGO of size 30 people. An individual life had maximal meaning regardless of the total population.
But the real quality of life standard changes will come from projects. Say humanity votes on a whole Earth project to settle Mars. To pull this off then  this may require whole humanity sacrifice and everyone going without bacon to meet the objective.
If think about, the standards must in part come from the whole Earth simulations that take into account all condition variables. If, for example, the Earth were hit by a planet busting asteroid. Human rights of today can't change immediately to new conditions. Simulation can.
The difference is the UN doesn't have a flexible system based on historical  and immediate conditions that sets objectives for improvement. Irreni will have custom standards for MGO. Where do these standards come from?
Quality of life is a set of ever changing standards based on immediate environment and overall human conditions. These standards are set by the managing MGO body much like human rights ideology is set by the UN today.
Irreni is an engineering system with almost no ideology or better stated least ideology. What is the least ideology? Everyone in that means increasing quality of life for everyone with the objective of indefinite life from here to infinity. That's it. That's the minimal ideology.
Irreni is not a system of law. It is a system of membership. The MGO governing body has only one power: membership. Membership is used to promote quality of life. That means breaking up bad MGOs, but also putting together better MGOs.
MGOs must take care of their members or be disbanded. The fundamental flaw of the UN is a focus on unified ideology, human rights. Irreni is a focus on human quality of life. What ideology an MGO uses is of no concern.
Every MGO is sovereign and has its own ideology. Theocracy? No problem. How can 300 million ideologies work together? Easy, show, don't tell. Each MGO must show that all members are educated, healthy, and given opportunities based on reporting data daily using world standards.
... the UN is a failed design. Irreni resolves this problem of scale in two ways. First, their are no nations, just MGO mesh nodes. Second Irreni separates engineering from ideology. Irreni is an acronym: Innovation replaces revolution, engineering not ideology.
Whole Earth projects using nations could be made possible with the UN, a world nation body. But the UN is and always has been the most powerful nations bullying all other nations. Israel's power is only made possible by US power. That kind of pettiness where one nation bullies the rest means ...
Whole Earth simulation will require millions of people to coordinate on that AI in a way that is impossible for nations because nations only ever primarily concern themselves with their fraction of population.
Whole Earth simulation runs all dimensions in all simulations because everything impacts everything. This must absolutely include human behavior change. We cannot address problems like AMR without considering science education resistance (SER).
Whole Earth simulation handles all the dimensions at once. The problem with current climate change responses is they isolate the variables like food, water, arable land, human migration, or manufacturing. The only simulation that will be effective is whole Earth simulation.
One of the key features of Irreni project management is whole Earth simulation no nation can ever achieve due to national pettiness. Whole Earth simulation is a hard requirement for managing climate. If you want to manage climate, you need Irreni.
The project system is more complicated than any human governing system today. This is made possible because all mesh nodes can work towards the same goals. Nations hog resources, have petty jealousies, and corrupt easily due to hierarchy design managing everyone in the system concentrating power.
This is what a mesh system looks like: projects, not nations. Mesh nodes have capabilities that contribute to projects. Thus the "worker" in a mesh system is the node, not the individual. The node is designed to be self-sufficient, much like a body cell that uses blood to transfer resources.
We need to transition from meaningless, arbitrary citizenship by accident of birth to design assignment of MGO for project purposes. 80% of the population is employeed in the MGO, with a meaningful life sustaining 30 people. Only 20% are involved directly with groups of MGO projects.
These MGO work containers can be thought of as parts in a project. They can be easily moved around the world to where their capability is needed. That's smart engineering.
Irreni uses the mesh of 300 million MGOs to conduct projects in order to accomplish what the government accomplishes today if they function at all. There are no nations in Irreni. Arbitray land lines are antithetical to good engineering. Instead MGOs of fixed size 30 people are work containers.
Modern society provides little job satisfaction. MGO life only has 20% of population working jobs like we have today. The rest are working for the MGO. MGOs distrubute power giving everyone much greater control over their lives in this way. Greater control is greater liberty.
Irreni is not just about fixing the doom and gloom on the horizon. It is also about expanding humanitys' quality of life. One way is focusing attention on the MGO. If your job is, say, farming the MGO farm, then the despondent meaningless work of today goes away.
I don't follow these things closely, but in 2000 I read a report that by 2030 net world migration would be 3-4% due to climate change. Mix in a pandemic or three? Join an MGO now.
So close, Democracy is dead, done, fini. There is no path forward. Hierarchy doesn't  scale. We need mesh systems of government. Join an MGO. The longer we languish then the more the suffering.
irreni.social
Beating a dead horse here, but anti-microbial resistance is like climate change, a science education resistance problem (SER). Right-wing populism being anti-vax means even a vax is not enough.  AMR requires solving SER.
Not sure if you are aware but Illumina DME+ app has AMR markers detected.
Meanwhile Evangelicals are scheming to not feed people and deport them in the name of Project 2025, Christian Nationalism. Yee ha!
Libertry: Parent of Science & Industry

Motto put on early American coins.

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1792_ha...
----------------------------------------
2025-01-05
----------------------------------------

Good Evening! Saturday Night Swing with the Brain Setzer Orchestra! Upbeat music sure to put a smile in your feet and bounce on your face! The ant carrying grapes gives new meaning to living it uP! 

#winamp
vimeo.com/1043991087
Good Evening! What Ben is advocating here is for you to join an MGO, micro-governing organization. Hierarchy of charismatic leaders is failed. Mesh networks are the way to govern. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=8akN...
     "Whoa be the day the people figure out that they can vote themselves money."
    -John Adams

    "Whoa be the day the Congress figures out that they can vote themselves money."
    -Mybrid Wonderful
Back in 2020 Google was alerting people that many of their applications were being removed, blogspot.com being one of them. I didn't bother deleting the Irreni blog assuming the entire site would get nuked. Nope. My blog is still there and boy has the UI not aged well. Time to decommission.
Religion Amendment to the US Constitution: Religion, religious customs, religious displays, and religious tradition cannot be recognized or used in law or in government practice. Religion must organize as any other social group, no privilege.
Trump being triggered by flags flying at half-mast is our nanosecond reminder that we did not elect a president but rather a pinball where everyone is trying to rack up the high score on their machine. Burn it all down? No. Bounce him around? 
Yes.
Christian Nationalism, noun: 1. Take credit for all the good things in Western society and none of the bad. 2. See slavery where both sides of a civil war feverishly argued Christian arguments that were only resolved by 600,000 deaths.
#neurodivergent
3k followers I'm guessing is the root cause. If I get too many followers, I will delete my account and start over unless they add a feature to reset followers to 0.
When the MAGA base and the billionaires say "burn it all down" they are looking at each other, it's just that the base doesn't have any matches.
Christian Nationalism is a hate campaign. Religious warfare and class warfare. Eat the church and rich.
Yeah, join an MGO, because micro-governing organizations are a big change. :)
Black velvet used in black light posters is pretty good too.
Substack is a meme app forced on us by Ycombinator's boot-looking of Stanford;  written by Stanford script kiddies who knew nothing  about UI/UX and only successful because journalists are easily snookered. 

Be kind posts are making the rounds, my contribution.
America is a failed experiment. Democracy is dead. Get out of your denial. Join an MGO. 

Also, not a bad piece. However, reading it reminded me how s****y substack UI is to me and why I don't go there. #neurodivergent
Relearn Irreni World Scale. Democracy is done, stick a fork, this quote is telling you to get out of your comfort zone and into an MGO.
irreni.social
Not true. Join an MGO today!
irreni.social
Eat the church and rich. We are in both a religious war and class war. Christian nationalism is real.
Headlines like, "Trump is worried about attendance size" or "Johnson misattributed prayer as Jefferson" are just click bait and not news. Tune out. Media needs to flat line.
I mean, how monarchist is it to claim the rich are America. Monarchist is a word we need to bring back and use like ketchup. Business Insider is monarchist.
Good morning! BI is one of the few mainstream media I still follow. This is disgusting. TLDR: the rich are going to get richer and the poor screwed by tariffs and the rich are dancing on the poor's financial cemetery plots is a disgusting article to write.
www.yahoo.com/finance/news...
Don't be guilt tripped. They started. We finish it. Time to permanently end religious privilege in marriage, adoption, and every other fashion.
Religious war and class war both.

Religious Amendment: 
No government can make laws establishing religion and religious tests, mentioning religion, or privileging religion different than other organization legislation. 

F around and find out, Christian nationalists.
----------------------------------------
2025-01-04
----------------------------------------

Crisis, what crisis?
Doing what, looking over the top of your glasses? Geez us.
Free will doesn't exist. There is no blank slate. Everyone has a psyche profile. Bigotry against one class that deviates from the overall norm is silly. This is why religion is evil as all hell. F religion.
"What if life on Earth is just a freak accident?"

-A. Freak
Cigarettes. Women were not allowed to smoke until capitalists realized the market potential. Labor, women stayed home until Raygun when capitalists realized they keep wages stagnant with two parents working. That's all that's going on here.
www.fastcompany.com/91253805/cal...
Fresh of the press of my keyboard fingers! Disinformation is a sizzling hot topic coming into 2025 and mainstream media losing millions of views. 

Sizzling hot topic, meet the cold browser. 

irreni.social/disinformati...
I'm really worried the US government total collapse is being dramatic accelerated over the next four years. UBI is one way to stave off total failure. National Ballot Measures linked below  is another.

#UBI

irreni.social/the-national...
MGOs, like UBI, extend the life of hierarchy governments and can be destiny. When faced with imminent failure or depending on UBI and MGOs, then existing governments will choose them both. UBI can meet immediate needs. MGOs will take years to build out. #UBI
UBI versus MGOs. Universal Basic Income is just one part of government, where Irreni replaces all governments on the planet so they are apples and oranges, except they both can extend the life of the US government. 
#UBI 
irreni.social/ubi-versus-m...
----------------------------------------
2025-01-03
----------------------------------------

Sigh. Fat lot of good Biden's order to eliminate fees did. They always find a way or a loop hole.
Capitalism is perverting reality and controlling reality in order to make its simulation predictions 100% accurate. As this trend continues then capitalism will create hell on Earth. 
irreni.social/complexity/
Here is one imagining replacement.
irreni.social
Excellent. Here is how to scale humane humanity.
irreni.social
Here is my change everything plan.
irreni.social
These are the droids you are looking for.
irreni.social
Good Evening. Winamp music for your evening. Decided to doodle with this album and put a thunderstorm loop in the background. Enjoy! Get Funky! 

vimeo.com/995637063
Bee Pot*

*Honey Pot is a security device of an unprotected server on the Internet to attract and monitor cyber attacks.
Boop!
Short  action film. 
1. Chase scene, check. 
2. Surprise interruption, check.
3. Tuxes, check. 
4. Drifting, check.
5. Thrilling jump, check.
6. Happy Ending, check.
I don't know who needs to hear this, but gun barrels are made out of hardened steel. Does that make them safer?
----------------------------------------
2025-01-02
----------------------------------------

One more for the bed.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayLv...
www.youtube.com/watch?v=TogA...
And new songs! I want an entire album.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=kW-Z...
Good Evening! Peace out! Virtual hugs! 
www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oij_...
www.youtube.com/watch?v=01Gi...
Happy New Year! Free Will doesn't exist. The evil of religion believing in free will has blocked mental health study.  Next year higher levels of stress will invoke more suffering  for which we have no recourse due to lack of science. Please be patient and for the everyone's sake reject religion.
Thanks for the chats! Happy New Year! I'm afk for awhile.
I don't know how to respond to favorite song. Not in my wheelhouse, eh
I'm still exploring, right now I'm I'm traversing 70s funk on YouTube. Lots of great channels. 

Earth Wind and Fire is the artist I have the most of.
Another free gift for you. After many years of litigation you can scrape music from YouTube legally. I use Media Human. It is free to use and easy to use. Just be sure to slide the toggle to music only or you will get the video. I will also download from Vimeo as well. :)

www.mediahuman.com/en23/
I only cross-post a few things on YouTube because of ads. My Vimeo stuff is ad-free so I post everything there first. Here is my most viewed Winamp on YouTube with 300  views. Funk Jazz. 

vimeo.com/988005862
When I was a teenager I listened to Styx the mos and "Grand Illusion" on repeat. Dramatic lyrics for sure. 

Lately my favorite genre is Funk. 

But I float between many genres including Classical, Jazz, and Movie soundtracks.
Yes! AC/DC. Probably the most formulaic, constant driving music by a band. Funny lyrics although outdated for today. You could say she had it all! Stick this in your fuse box. Crackerjack stuff.
I will say though that Paradise By the Dashboard Lights was my first Meat Loaf song and landed when I was 17. Story telling music like that is something I wish we had more of.
Sadly, I'm not one of those people who can claim favorites. My favorite color is all of them. My favorite musical instrument is all of them. Wasted Youth is just so funny. Bat out of Hell Live has a great intro. Depends on the mood I'm in. #neurodivergent
----------------------------------------
2025-01-01
----------------------------------------

Sooooooo, disaster capitalism and terrorist capitalism. Lovely.
Meat Loaf has some excellent song titles for the X crowd:

Out of the frying pan (And into the Fire)
Everything Louder than Everything Else
Life is a Lemon and I Want My Money Back
I'll Do Anything For You [Donald], (But I Won't Do That)
I have a gift. Bat out hell is an idiom no longer used. I had a friend in high school who used it for everything. You can too in 2025. When you need an escape phrase in a conversation, just say, "that's like a bat out of hell." You sound cool and others won't want to you to clarify and not be cool.
correct you are! twas just my poor poor attempt at humor.
Ringing in the new year. The words for 2025 are "balkanization" and "drama". Since there is no music for the former I chose drama music to ring in the new year! 

Let's to the Time Warp again! And Meat Loaf always delivers on the drama! 
vimeo.com/1043192889
Is the Winamp visual effects set to music AI? I mean, it could be considered AI generated content. I ask because uploading videos now requires flagging something as being AI generated. ha!
This reminds me of the archaic meme of the snake eating its own tale. lol
Here's my list of 2024 favorites:

1. Song of the Year: One Find Morning, Lighthouse cover by Leonid and Friends. Easily the most song I played in 2024. Not even close. 

I'm broke because I have to send Igor the drummer all me money when I hear it. Rules.

vimeo.com/1043181961
Happy New Year! Here's a fun one. I guess we can't post videos > 60s, this one is 75s. I actually don't have a Tik Tok account. Someone sent this to me cause social media friends can be fun. 

vimeo.com/1043177566
Oh yeah, I forgot the forgettable politician named Joe Walsh!
I follow that logic. :) Same age. Joe Walsh for President!
Systemic warfare needs to be promoted the same as class warfare and stochastic terrorism. 

systemic warfare: noun, 1. Using a system that targets known behavior of certain groups under the moral cover that the system includes everyone. For example, the War on Drugs and Voter ID laws.
 2025 Luigi New Years Resolution
Ina godda divida baby.
Here's one thing I will say about minimum wage and living wage. A comprehensive set of labor laws would better manage a living wage in a complicated economy. However, the Democratic party is not pro-labor, so a simple living wage law is the practical choice.
Nothing like the smell of dess pots in the remotest places early in the new year.
Trump is not this country's first authoritarian. Alexander Hamilton promoted monarchy, and when he failed he promoted Federal  power with the Assumption Act and the US Bank.
The Assumption Act can be described as debt being corruption leverage. The Assumption Act was bitterly fought because of this. Guess which side won out? The Civil War was not the beginning of eroding States rights.
Jefferson promoted expiring the Constitution every 20 years forcing a new one.
The founders of this country were well aware of the time limits of corruption eventually overwhelming the Constitution. John Adams predicted the US would only last 30-40 years and got labeled a monarchist for it.
The 535 Congress critters as hierarchy representing 330 million people is too easy to buy or threaten. The US is doomed. It will fail.
The design problem is not just corruption leading to oligarchy, but that any hierarchy system will resolve to this that has financial success. You can't build enough checks and balances to manage financial success using hierarchy. The head will always corrupt.
Trump is going to overwhelm the hierarchy system with illegal stuff like perhaps 1000 executive orders that would take lifetimes to adjudicate. Fog of hierarchy is upon us of expecting the public to vote on representation for complicated issues of huge impact  in short time spans.
Furthermore, the government is too large for any one person to understand. This is the design flaw of hierarchy in the information age. This is just one reason why we need to move to a mesh design like Irreni.
My point is this: the government is too large with too much information to even begin to offer a holistic assessment the people can understand. It is too complicated.
The problem with simple assessments like Democrats have proven to reduce deficit spending while Republicans increase it with tax cuts is that the assessment leaves everything else out.  It is the opposite of a purity test.
A common assessment of Kamala's campaign was why vote Republican lite when you can vote Republican? Well, I'm sorry to say voting Republican lite is what we've been doing since Clinton. There are only pretend labor voices in Congress. I say pretend because the party is pro- business not pro-labor.
Then, when Clinton came to power, the Democratic party fought him until he shifted right. That shifting right continues. Today, both parties run on social issues they have no intention of codifying, like abortion or immigration. Then legislate pro-business. Unions were sold out long ago.
The Democratic party died o. 1968. Carter had to fight not only Republicans, but his own party undermined him. Then, during the Raygun years, the Democrats in Congress voted across party lines more than any other time in their history, functionally not a party at all.
The calculus one uses with voting character is we know nothing good can come from Trump. Otherwise, it is going to be a mixed bag. Grow up. There is no perfect human and f the purity tests.
What annoys me about these purity tests:
1. Only human. Washington owned slaves. Mature adults can respect and admire what he did as a General and President while condemning his slavery. It is not an either or.
2. Character. Carter had the best character to trust vs any that followed since.
Okay Zoe Baker: Should the US have economic embargo on Russia, or would using trade as negotiating tactics been better leverage? I await your words of wisdom.
Some of us lived through the Viet Nam era where war was not the answer. Ignoring s**t got us Rawanda. Ask Clinton what his biggest regret was.
Nixon opened relations with China. Raygun furthered trade relations such that China has the 2nd largest economy. Shall we look at China's human rights history?
Let's compare Carter's track record to Raygun, Bush, Clinton, Bush. Obama, and Trump.
Then there is Viet Nam. Are we ever going to mature as a country and not police the world as an empire?
So Raygun overthrew brutal communist dictators in Crntrsl America in the 1980s using illegal drug money. We never "rebuilt the peace" and these countries have little gov. and we have thousands of CA immigrants we take mo resp. for.
Catch 22: Support a dictator and further the interests of the US empire, or overthrow the dictator and further the interests of the US empire. Or boycott them like Iraq and starve people. There are no good choices with dictators.
Good Evening!
Christianity needs to undergo a reformation or be ignored. The reformation it needs is to whip up some objective morality regarding group behaviors: wars, pollution, health care. The Bibles 600 commandments only deal with individuals and family. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=JClF...
I understand the frustration in this video where people with behaviors associated with autism claim autism incorrectly.  My mental health profile is idiopathic, unknown. A lot of people find that hard to accept because they desperately need answers where none exist. 
www.youtube.com/shorts/LpGAH...
----------------------------------------
2024-12-31
----------------------------------------

Hoosier is a contraction of "Who's There?" Greeting. Makes you wonder what Hoosiers were suspicious about.
Solution karma points.
Block account should be allowed with one click, like the like button. Perhaps a feature in settings allows for toggling existing behavior.

#keyboardwarrior #neurodivergent
Web developers are creating an underlying OS as a feature list. Top down design with no bottom up.
Watermarks. Or even better containers. It would be trivial for sites like this to use matching keys where one half is the post and one half is the image. The image only renders in the container. Getty Muesum does a good job of watermarks.
There are other design of scale failures though. The small State/ large State design of the Senate has grossly failed. Today 30/50 States have only 20% of total population. As that number increases then  misrepresentation of the majority will eventually lead to a revolt, perhaps only legally.
I should post this every day.

The 435 number of US representatives was not a design. It was a decision made by how many people fit into an existing building.

That single artifact of our Constution doomed the US to fail at scale.
Excitement and fear are two sides of the same coin that must be used to purchase  adventure and pioneering.

Invite yourself to go on a quest, to adventure into that great unknown of the society required for tomorrow.
The Eagles were wrong when in the song, "The Last Resort", they penned the lyric,"there is no more new frontier, we have got to make it here [in California]. " Our comfort zone is always a new frontier to cross.
Have courage. Join an MGO. Yes it is pioneering but the risk of dying from dysentery as with crossing the Oregan trail risk is not there, the risk is simply getting out of your comfort zone. Join a group of thirty people and become a mesh node.
As long as the world is built on representative gov. and capitalism then  our gov. will stagnate and never scale. Either massive amounts of people will die or they will live in misery. Both are bad choices.
Instant gratification is capitalism integrated to infinity. If we want long term plans we need to revert back to trade without consumerism. This  is also going to take time to soocialize away instant gratification.
Irreni World Scale will take 400 years. During that time hierarchy will be dissolved, no revolution. Culture takes generations to change and shifting from hierarchy will take hundreds of years.
Revolution necessarily replaces one hierarchy with another because this is the only immediate replacement design. Revolution is out. We need plans with designs of scale. This means a mesh as building blocks, not monoliths of single designs.
Obviously the rich want hierarchy no matter the pain and suffering inflicted by the failures of scale. The top of the hierarchy is never going to promote removing their privilege.
We need to move away from hierarchy and move to mesh government. One can just tack on horizontally in a mesh, but bureaucracy and hierarchy collapse under their own weight with unlimited growth, and further information age leaders cannot handle firehoses of daily new information.
You can't get ahead by staying even. The biggest threat to Democracy today is over-simplified solutions of previous scale problems, and that includes Democracy  itself being too simple to scale.
As a software engineer by trade it is common knowledge that designs of scale are needed. What works for one order of magnitude doesn't work for the next. Yet we never scaled our political system.
I'm in a pickle. Being #neurodivergent I don't want a lot of followers and won't follow a lot. But, everyone on the planet needs to join Irreni. Meh. I think I need an influencer companion.
I did not find any political follows. Complaining is a path to nowhere. At best it is therapeutic or cathartic. We need solutions. Democracy is done, stick a fork. It doesn't scale because representation is really bad hierarchy and hierarchy doesn't scale in an information age. Too much to know.
Happy Monday! Starter packs are a great addition. Being #neurodivergent there is no way I can hit follow all. Every account is vetted. They need some love though. Or rather the groups of packs. Groups of packs like Art have tons of non art packs in the group.
The night grips you saxophone softly and wisps you up into the sky and into the galaxy to a 360 degree star gazing party of one. 

The Night Time | Grace Kelly 
vimeo.com/1042836559
Just a reminder, I have all the solutions. :)
Sci-fi writers pointed out long ago that the education required to understand the truth grows at the rate science and tech advances. The gap between high-school education and modern society is greater than no education and knowledge in ancient society. Hokum and myths will explode in growth.
Happy Sunday! The Democratic party snubbed Jimmy Carter one and all after he left office and for the rest of his life. Says everything you need to know about the Democratic party. 

Carter was a good man.
----------------------------------------
2024-12-30
----------------------------------------

I've been using the word "dysfunctionality" since the 1980s. Yet spell checkers still don't have this word. I mean, come on, if functionality is a word than so is dysfunctionality. Gorram it. 

I persist. ha!
Have you heard? There is an additional definition of insanity. 

insanity, noun: 

1. Expecting corrupt, oppressive, dysfunctional  government to fix its corrupt, oppressive,  dysfunctionality. 

2. Doing the same thing over-and-over again expecting different results.
It is far more nefarious. The State loved the commandment, "though shall not steal." The rest of the Bible they could care less about. The commandment to not steal creates divine retribution for breaking human law determining ownership. The rich can change the laws of ownership and you are f'ed.
Mmm, full disclaimer. I'm an automation engineer. My excuse is that I invented Irreni that makes capitalism obsolete.

🙃
Artificial Intelligence is just the ultimate hot-fever dream of cheap labor automation by capitalists, eventually. :)

Capitalism, noun: 1. a consumer system of cheap labor where the consumers make no money to consume with when fully automated.
Join an MGO today! Let the indefinite surviving society begin!

irreni.social/what-is-an-m...
Irreni World Scale is a mesh design that scales infinitely horizontally where hierarchy cannot because the head has limited capacity. Irreni is made up of fixed size 30 people MGOs, micro-governing units, that are self supporting, a survival mesh.
We are not going to fix the flaws in Christian National society by equivocating and playing footsies. Or pretending we can trim around the edges. Society needs new designs of infinite goals.
Our challenge today is not just immediate but indefinite. We need new societies that transcend religious notions of creator design and control. We must take responsibility assuming no outside designs. Period. We need to meet this moment. Religious appeals are an end times  self-fulfilling prophecy.
Irren World Scale is designed for indefinite life. It is going to be an emotional uprooting to switch from an end-times culture of today. We need plans for hundreds of years, thousands of years, millions of years. They will never happen with religion.
The irony of modern Christians is they accuse the non- religious of being immoral all the while believing the end times are nigh.

There can be no more moral society than one whose self-imposed meaning is indefinite life, and any more immoral society working towards end times. Christianity is evil.
The requirement for managing the universe as the meaning of life means we need everyone. This is a utilitarian view that includes both those of us with universal empathy for all life and those of us who don't.
What is the meaning of life? To go on indefinitely. 

New society designs must plan for indefinite life, not human destruction on some pissant hill in N. Africa.

Irenni World Scale is such a design. It scales to managing the Earth, the Sun, the Galaxy, and the Universe. It is a mesh design.
What is the meaning of  life?
1. Stop universe heat death in trillions of years.
2. Manage Andromeda galaxy collision in 2 million years.
3. Manage our Sun dying.
4. Mange climate change on Earth.
I have a bone to pick with this common trope of science where scientists are all jolly with admitting they are wrong. Uhhh, no. My experience is that they have huge egos, are bullies, cry babies, and the community that corrects. Many scientists go to their graves never admitting they're mistakes.
As I've gone through life explaining I'm an I don't know atheist because I don't care, I get surprised how many other people also don't care. Why would I care what created the universe? Or who? Or about some "after life" that doesn't exist? Show me an "after life" person, then I might.
I call myself an "I don't know" atheist. Religious folks are forever stating that everyone grapples with the big questions. No, we don't. 
1. I don't care how the universe was created.
2. I don't care about the illogical "after life."
3. I don't care if something created humans, we don't owe them.
Here is three-for-one:
1. Dark Brandon is a channel recommend
2. This video recommends a comedian.
3. The comedian example video recommends "I don't know" being intelligent.
m.youtube.com/watch?v=QGn4...
What?
I've been bullied my whole life. Never have I acted like Cenk, who assumes everyone acts like him  the way he is currently being bullied. No Cenk. This is a common problem with neurotypicals of making common behavior assumptions we neurodivergent have to  learn. You are projecting.
When I was a kid I declared the golden rule to be evil. Do unto others is lazy and inconsiderate. When the Information Age was declared the I hit upon the information rule.

Information rule: treat others as they are, not as you are. 

This requires information and hard work.
The problem I have with TYT is the well tread ground of pivoting right by focusing on bashing the left. This happened to Matt Taibbi. You dont need to promote the rights agenda. The irony of Cenk admiring the right for coallescing is that he is the left in his mind, and he's not coallescing.
It is too bad the Constitution doesn't have an article stating only Congress can declare War.
Kudos to Bluesky for not including my own posts in my feed. The Groucho Marx razor applies*.

*"I wouldn't join any club that would have me as a member." - Groucho Marx
As a 2025 resolution, let us all join together and forgo using the word "ge nuis" and instead use "distinct". Genius implies everything or something anyone might achieve, where distinct implies organic outgrowth, like a hang nail. Advice from being #neurodivergent
m.youtube.com/watch?v=vwqN...
I start a new, yet to be decided, project position this year. Last year I worked on the cloud integration of Illumnia's latest, desktop sequencer.
Mmm, I guess, full disclaimer: I work at Illumina as a software developer on a team that currently  works on a proteomics acquisition integration. Thermo Fischer is a competitor. Not a biologist, though. Opinions expressed are mine. Thermo does good work.
I'm not convinced of the value of visual proteomics. The paper did not provide me any additional convincing. In principal, yes, in practice, it just seems expensive, elaborate, and unreproducable  basic research. We should flush out computational as a priority that can be used to validate such work
I have Steven Pinkers, "Sense of Style", book on writing style. I find it easygoing and excellent advice for tech writing. Includes Power Point and other modern modalities of writing.
This paper does a bang-up job defining many terms, like in-situ. However, it does seem arbitrary given just how many technical terms were needed. Still, kudos for what was defined.
In my opinion, as in this is speculation, the crisis of science publishing is in part the barriers to reproducing the experiment. High tech is expensive, as in experiments costing thousands of dollars m taking a small team on the order of a year.
Upon reading this paper I am reminded of a pet peeve of mine.
1. Paper asks for student participation.
2. Acknowledges use of super computer and Therma Fischer backing. 

Papers need to publish costs in both dollars and labor.
Simple and tasty.
Good Morning. Mmmm, phone background.
"What is nature's call?" Racial NPC  Greeting In World of Warcraft. Nature call morphed into "bio break" in game, so I find it amusing people may not get the joke .
Good Evening! Put a little zip into your Saturday Night with some Funk. Sexy sax and trombone. Get your feet moving! 

The Smoke Orchestra | Rice and Beans

vimeo.com/1042703719
Here, have some more art.
I have a song in my music collection with the title, 

"When my bed breaks down, I'll meet you in the Spring."
Horror movie in one frame.
Someone should send this to Cenk.
when people ask me what my favorite color is, I say all of them.
----------------------------------------
2024-12-29
----------------------------------------

Just a reminder to surround yourself with beauty and joy  these next four years. And humor. My feed will have art, music and fun in addition to admonishing you to join Irreni World Scale! Cause politics ain't gonna fix itself. #neurodivergent
A nice background for your phone.
And then of course Obama prosecuted no one on Wall Street after 2008. 

mmm, I'm seeing a pattern.
The following opinion makes me hugely unpopular. In 2006 Nancy Pelosi single-handedly squashed all investigations into  any war crimes against the Bush Administration. Not holding Republicans accountable paved the way for Trump.
So I did some searching for art using various art feeds and searches on things like procreate. So far the search that has yielded the most results for my taste is just #painting
The Iran Contra affair should have put the whole lot of them in prison. Instead Democrats gave Ollie North immunity and after proving illegal doings then did nothing.
Beauty
Just a reminder: after Jimmy Carter lost in 1979 there was a similar Democratic leadership power vacuum. Democrats proceeded to vote with Republicans more times than any other President during the Raygun years.
Power vacuum. While MAGA is F'ing around and finding out, Demcorats in Congress are going to be "If you can't beat them join them or leave." The House didn't flip control, but the Democratic leadership has proven to be impotent.
Got Climate Change? Nations and hierarchies in general are antithetical to cooperation because of competition, jealousy and resource hoarding. This means we MUST replace nations with meshes of MGOs if humans are to manage Earth and beyond.

irreni.social/be-a-climate...
Nature Vs. Desire. The long arc of history doesn't bend towards justice, it bends towards desire. It is up to every generation to ensure that desire benefits all of humanity and not just the few. 

irreni.social/nature-versu...
Ratio'ing and piling on reposting memes are two of the worst behaviors of social media because they are weaponizing, not socializing.
One of the themes of Francesca's interview with Cenk is that he was giving the appearance of an apology tour to the right. 

It is worse than that. He is normalizing reprobate behavior by platforming them. 

I reject normalizing racist, homophobic, trans-phobic, misogynistic, bullying behavior.
I think it was inevitable that once Liberals left Twitter that the Right Wing haters would turn on each other. Haters gotta hate. If you still are posting on Twitter, this is something to consider. Don't chum the waters.
New feature request: dog piling button. 

At some point piling on becomes click bait farming. I want a dog button for memes that I can mute. The algo not show repeated posted memes except to followers. Repeated memes shouldn't increase visibility.

Karma farming on Reddit ruined memes and art.
Yeah, right.
This is infuriating. Why are we pretending decorum and respectability matters to Trump? Somebody needs to punk Trump's a** that Kash Patel is eating the pets in Springfield.
Whoever put the 'i' next to 'u' deserves to go to that special h**l...is, us, no biggie.
So, lets place bets on when State Lottery's start paying out in Crypto. I mean, the Lottery is a "to the moon" scam. Why take the "winnings" too?
Eat The Rich*

*Eat The Rich: redistribute wealth back to 1980 levels.
Whenever someone on the right denigrate the left for creating safe spaces, what I hear is, "I want to bully you, hey, where you going, come back, come back! Geez, now it is just us bullies. Where's the fun in that."

Safe spaces, noun: 1. specific, personalized politeness.
Safe spaces. This is for all my neurdivergent family.

Can someone explain to me like I'm five years old what is wrong with safe spaces? Triggers are real. One environment size does not fit all.
Suggestion: we should be able to pin multiple tweets. The behavior is a horizontal scroll much like with Netflix genre recommendations.
I'm a bad user. On Twitter I got frustrated when my replies got annihilated because the user deleted their account, acount. was disabled, or the tweet was deleted. I only quote post to avoid this and thus remove myself from threads. /shrug.
If you are frustrated because our political systems deem immune to repair, then realize gov. reflects society. We need to fix society first. The plan to fix society is Irenni World Scale.
irreni.social
Need solutions? I got all the solutions. Irreni World Scale is a mesh social system that, a.) replaces hierarchy so, b.) people can better self-govern, better "We are on our own."
Actual useful AI suggestion: intelligent filters on social media and  not just simplistic keywords or image filters.

Example: war. I would like a filter for war related posts that includes images.
This reminds me of that meme with old ladies in the living, one explaining, "This is not how this works. This is not how any of this works. " 

I'm going to give this kind of stupidity a title, "Sociopath".
The root cause of our border problem is us. The US has no self-awareness. Bush Sr. wrote a book stating he didn't overthrow Saddam in 1st Gulf War because it would permanently destabilize the region. Destruction is easy. Taking responsibility afterward is not so much.
Happy Saturday! In the 1980s, Raygun destabilized Central American gov's. He sold drugs to fund wars to overthrow communists. They never stabilized. Now we have drugs & CA immigrants at border.
I am not autistic. My divergent profile is I do not get angry, depressed, or hateful. However, I get frustrated easily, and it presents as anger. This is the thing I manage the most. Constant management. Lot of work.
Just a reminder, the grass is not always greener on the other side. Marjorie Taylor Greene is in the dugout when the Kash runs out.
One more for the bed, because I'm not hitting the road at this hour. 

Spaghetti Western in 4 minutes. Dramatic. Slow. Deliberate. Haunting. Solo Trumpet. 

Post Modern Jukebox | I Was Made For Loving You

vimeo.com/1042564412
Zebra Mood! 

Beauty!
Good Evening! Ad-free Winamp music video on Vimeo. 

"Your light saber honey, I'm a lot safer too." 

Has three intros, the second one is a base guitar giving you the recipe for Chocolate Chip cookies, be sure to be ready. 

1970s Chicago cover by Leonid & Friends. 

vimeo.com/1042561331
Life time progressive here. Never have I been in the mainstream:
1. Atheist, tax the churches. 
2. Universal healthcare. 
3. Public education for life.
4. Reinstate Fairness Doctrine, Glass Stegal.
5. Repeal 1999 Telecommunications act. 
6. Living wage, not minimum wage.
There is a contradiction at the heart of Cenk's new right wing pivot.
1. TYT is "the home of progressives" 
2. Cenk's  justification for his right-wing pivot is he represents mainstream Democratic voters; "max" left can suck it. 

Which is it Cenk: are your progressive or mainstream?
So I just watched Francesca interview Cenk. It was two hours. My take away is Cenk is hellbent on "his plan". It's "his plan". And "he's right." I'm sorry Cenk, but that's not how coalitions work. 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=2rGF...
----------------------------------------
2024-12-28
----------------------------------------

If there is another pandemic in the next four years it will be a disaster here in the US. I wonder if this is could be cause for political asylum in another country? I vaccinate.
So, the H1B MAGA war is not just about the lower H2B wages. The visa workers are locked into the employer, indentured servitude. It is slave trafficking to hold visas for sex workers, capiltalism to hold greencards 5-7 years for H1B workers.
More police state. Pick a lane: Eat The Rich or Police State.
National Referendum Act link.

irreni.social/the-national...
Republicans wanting to repeal the Impoundment Act of 1974 is why I included a provision in the National Referendum Act that requires Congress to spend all money and removes this responsibility from the President.
www.yahoo.com/news/willing...
Embrace solutions. Embrace Irreni, even if only as a springboard. The  US is too big to fail. When the US does fail, the destruction will be worldwide. The more we plan ahead with a replacement, the less the destruction. Be responsible. Embrace solutions.
I designed Irreni World Scale knowing cultural changes take many generations and assuming the US government would last that long. Now I'm questioning that assumption. The corruption wants to build corruption states now.
Further, the US Constitution was never designed for world policing and a global economy. Corruption has taken advantage of this design gap. It is too late now to expand the Constitution, corruption will never cede power, the empire will fall.
The tipping point of  unbridled, runaway corruption for the US is after WWII, and the US economy became outsized  relative to the rest of the world. In Silicon Valley, we say your success becomes your failure. The checks and balances were never designed for our level of financial success.
In fact, the founders were aware of the time limits of corruption. Jefferson recommended a new Constitution every generation. Corruption will bring down every empire.
The fall of the US had been documented throughout most of my lifetime. I started Irreni World Scale to replace democracy decades ago. First rule of corruption is that corruption never declines, only advances and entrenches.
Good Morning! Zappy Friday!
Yes they can. In 1989 the Supreme Court gave a license to all cops to kill anyone, anytime. This license is a "fear of life" standard that only exists in the cops mind and is not falsifiable. 

41 shots.
Subscribe here if you want solutions to our social and political ills. I have all the solutions. 

Beauty!
What really whips the llama's ass is browsing all the skins 90,000 skins:
skins.webamp.org
Guess what? I gotta fever. No wait, never mind, I'm not Christopher Walker. What I got is ad-free videos. I pay Vimeo $100/year or so to give you ad free videos. 

Here's my Winamp Album on Vimeo! Mostly 70s Funk! 

Winamp Album:  vimeo.com/showcase/112...

vimeo.com/987690445
Good Evening! I have a gift for you. Did you know that Winamp is now in the public domain? The public version is called Webamp (web search). For all you into vinyl and turntables, Winamp is next. Just queue a few songs and enjoy! 

The Happy Song | Lana Tele

vimeo.com/1042380896
Read "Lord of Light", 1969 by Roger Zelazny to see the arc of hierarchy and high tech. Quite simply with genetic engineering the rich can make themselves smart and godlike. This is also the theme of Dune. We need to move on from hierarchy to mesh, Irreni World Scale. 
irreni.social
We need solutions. Lots of solutions. I have all the solutions. Here's one: National Ballot Measures. Here's one proposal to make National Ballot measures a reality.

www.youtube.com/watch?v=SshD...
----------------------------------------
2024-12-27
----------------------------------------

Eat The Rich: redistribute wealth back to 1980 levels. 

irreni.social
cognitive dissonance, noun: 1. mass shootings are mostly suicides and suicide by cop is common; yet the death penalty is going to deter crime that ends in suicide by cop. 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cogniti...
Just a reminder that the death penalty has no scientific basis as a deterrent of crime. This is because 50% of all murders are crimes of passion in the moment, etc. etc. I don't expect the MSM to fact check this.
Trump what's to do to Mexico what Israel is doing to Gaza, he's jealous. This is why he is throwing around numbers like each drug dealer kills 500 people. This is why his threats against Mexico are more serious than Greenland and Canada.
Trump wants to kill minorities. Proof: he took out a full page ad in the NYT calling for the execution of the Central Park 5. He's currently suing to have their conviction re-instated. Trump's death penalty lust is about killing minorities. Why is MSM giving him cover?
Just a reminder drug dealers are mostly minority. You don't get to hide racism behind demographics and claim you are not a racist. The war on drugs was a war on minorities and wildly successful at incarcerating minorities. Stopping drugs was never the objective. See Joe Biden's crime bill.
In 1989 the Supreme court made up a non-standard, mind-reading standard, fear-of-life, as a license to kill.  99% of felony convictions end in plea deals, not trials.  America abandoned the constitution long ago,  that didn't start in 2016. The answer is Irreni World Scale. 
irreni.social
Sadly, philosophy in software is as cringe and ego-driven as philosophy in general. But, why would we expect anything else, I guess?
The fact that police are hired to first and foremost commit violence and intelligence inhibits violence means this evidently problem has always existed.
I've been single my whole life. However, my mental profile is such that I have no recognition or frustration about people's reactions to my divergence. Not all divergence is detrimental. I sucked my thumb in public until I was 14. Bullying and teasing made no impact. #nuerodivergent
Happy THOR's day! I have all the solutions. I made a video a couple of days ago about solving MAGA.*

*The camera is not shaking, I have a permanent whole body palsy.

m.youtube.com/watch?v=ruYf...
Good Morning! Art Doodle!
Good Morning! Art!
Here is a 2010 article on Social Security eliminating poor houses. 
www.huffpost.com/entry/the-po...
Poor houses should come back. Prior to Social Security, the US housed the homeless in brutal poor houses. Now we can't be bothered with even that.
I always thought a "frame up" was weird word because there is no "frame down". So I created a meme about "face" frames named "Frame Well".  #neurodivergent
The next four years are going to require happiness refreshers. Music is my go to. My favorite color is all of them. My favorite instrument is all of them. Leonid and Friends is a Chicago cover band with an orchestra. 
Igor is the drummer. He resets me. Enjoy! 

www.youtube.com/watch?v=EH7a...
Beauty!
Good evening! Just a reminder if you post and search on beauty the algorithm will give you beauty.
Also, it doesn't scale. The original Constitution had 30k people/rep. This changed because of, checks notes, they ran out of building space. When our population hits 500 million that's  1 mil people/rep. Representation doesn't scale. We need Irreni World Scale. 

irreni.social
----------------------------------------
2024-12-26
----------------------------------------

Tradition is what we resort too when we don't want to think about doing some thing right.
Wanna go on a quest? adventure? 

The plan to fix society is called Irreni World Scale.  Irreni has quests and adventures. Your first quest is to join a micro-governing orgranization [MGO]. 

irreni.social/adventure/

#irreni #solutions
Happy Wednesday! The plan to fix society is called Irreni World Scale. I wrote an essay today identifying two root causes of political and social failure. The thesis is we are putting fixing the cart, politics, before fixing the horse, society.

irreni.social/the-cart/

#irreni #solutions
Pro image making tip: I pay and use Pix Teller. There are a million image manipulation sites. I just landed on Pix Teller and find it easy to use (pixteller.com). Nothing special. Getting back into social media we needs tools, eh? :) 

Practice:
Vinyl pro-tip: record the one of the first plays of the vinyl to mp3. Then play the mp3 as often as you want and preserve the vinyl integrity.
If vinyl is your thing then look into tube amps. If not that then discrete electronic amps with serial numbered transistors. :) Vinyl with tube amps gives a warm rich sound. A tube pre-amp is good enough with a discrete electronic amp. 

A dynamic filter but very little change.
Well, since I grew up in the 60s let me share some vinyl experience. 
1. Vinyl wears out. I think I re-bought some albums like 8 times in the 70s. Cassettes FTW. 
2. Needles wear out. 
3. Cleaning cleaning and more cleaning.
Today I Learned (TIL) that vinyl and turntables are a thing on Bluesky. I've finished doing a purge of my feed of triggering things and was surprised to see so many turn tales and vinyl posts. I left social media in 2018. Didn't expect vinyl to make a comeback.
Good night!
----------------------------------------
2024-12-25
----------------------------------------

Merry Christmas! During the pandemic I started making Doodles, videos using OBS effects, and sharing them with co-workers who were not use to working remote. I don't make as many now but here is one I made for Christmas last year.
irreni.social/wp-content/u...
vimeo.com/895133284
One other thing to mention is that ratio'ing is the lowest technology threshold of bot manipulation, just viewing and liking. It makes me sad when YouTube content creators cite X ratio'ing. I mean come on, Mush is probably artificially inflating those numbers himself in addition to regular bots.
I think the concept of getting ratio'ed is a determent to social media. The concept of just liking tweets to enable others to browse your likes is helpful. I hope Blue Sky doesn't allow impressions or like/dislike counts. The ratio'ing then becomes a social media weapon.
Jon Stewart for President? How we learned nothing from Bernie Sanders? A single person can't change anything, it takes a party. The fact that changing a single person is easier than changing an entire party is false hope.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=D9uJ...
I hope Blue Sky can avoid the level of negativity that lead to my  quitting social media in 2018. I'm not sure what that threshold is. I just knew I had to quit because things got so bad. I never deleted my Facebook account, just quit using it. I visit every so often and still no bueno.
I have always embraced being weird. Before I left social media, Facebook, Twitter, etc, I would create weird mashups of images.
I quit Twitter in 2018. I made this for Twitter before I quit. Lifetime member of the Freedom From Religion Foundation. That organization is needed now more than ever, go join please. @ffrf.bsky.social  #christiannationalism
One holiday tradition I have is to track things I can laugh about during the year and remember them during the holidays. For example, I left my laptop charger out so I wouldn't forget to pack it and I then forgot and had to buy a new one. :) Happy Holidays! 

#neurodivergent #cheapthrills
I got the idea for changing my name from the book, "Neuromancy" by William Gibson. It is a near-future Sci-fi that predicted the web. Unique names would be easy to search. I created mybrid to be  unique within all human names. Since 1985 I'm still easy to search.
#neurodivergent
I always felt like it was very sad given 60+ years of life expectancy that all of our major  life traditions happen before 30, our previous expectancy. I reserved last name change until after 50 as a new tradition. Don't hesitate to start new traditions. #neurodivergent
I changed my name to "Wonderful" in 2011 for cheap thrills. Who doesn't like cheap thrills? People who enjoy having fun with the  Mr. Wonderful name are my people.
#neurodivergent
I changed my name to "Mybrid" in 1985 when I was 22 as a warning sign to help people understand something unusual was heading their way. Is that male, female? It's weird. Unabashed neurodivergent.
#neurodivergent
Happy Tuesday! If you are looking for a new Fidget app, I use Word Mix. Constant finger moving and repetitive thinking. Helps channeling for me. #neurodivergent
Sci-fi writers have long predicted that as technology advances then the average IQ and manual labor value decreases, thus setting up a tension. In the Matrix automation provides all necessicites.
Bitcoin only took off because of the 0% interest free money in 2008, so they seeded billions in Bitcoin. They could have seeded those billions in anything as currency, even Beanie Babies would have had a smaller carbon footprint. No seed money and no Bitcoin. #MLM
I'm outta hair! Here, have some waffles...
Some things never change.
I got the memo to hang Valentines decorations already. So you can do your part too!
I have a mission. Before I quit Twitter in 2018 I followed a lot of artists. One of my favorites was a watercolor artist from Taiwan with the initials AK. Hope he's on Blue.
I hear you have heard of Dad jokes. But have you heard of Dad memes?
Well now. I guess I can look forward to using the Dewey decimal system again.
Well, atheist here, we've been accused of being baby eaters so I guess we should go with that flow. To brine or not to brine? mmmmm
A labor pool of 900 million is ample enough to build iPhones, automobiles, airplanes, and everything we build today. Also, Irreni is not a consumer economy, but a barter economy with MGO final assembly and manufacturing. MGO members producing MGO goods replace part of today's work force.
MGO workers will primarily be working in support of the MGO life, not projects. Only 10% of MGO population will be working on larger population projects. The labor pool for projects, if you will, is 1/10th to the total population, or 900 million for  a population of 9 billion.
Irreni has a far superior model to managing dependents than existing societies. Dependents are designed into the system. Each MGO must carry a dependency load between 30-50% of its membership. Unlike today's society, only about 50-70% of each MGO is expected to be productive.
The academy managing MGOs will more-often change membership to improve MGO member performance based upon ongoing science of human nature. As time goes on we will learn more-and-more about ensuring people get along and MGO membership will be changed to improve as well as mitigate behavior.
Any MGO that is mistreating its members and not living up to the global and regional standards of life set by the managing academy may have membership changes made.
MGOs are free to choose theocracy or any form of government they want. However, they must educate and care for their members to global MGO standards. To achieve this every MGO member is constantly adding personal experience data to the global collection pool.
Irreni manages the darker and violent tendencies of tribalism using a two prong approach. 
1. MGO management of membership of all MGOs.
2. Membership is managed using empirical data collected continuously. 
Irreni design doesn't proscribe government design, it proscribes government results.
Won't MGOs regress to tribalism? Yes.
Irreni allows people to get the patriarchy on by allowing MGOs to set up the government of their choosing. If MGOs want to set up a patriarchy to govern the 30 people, it is their choice. This is the only place patriarchy is allowed in Irreni but is also the most personal.
In addition to solving our  current attention span problem using MGOs, Irreni also solves our patriarchy project. Patriarchy is a naturally occurring phenomena in society. Patriarchy as to be managed then, not eliminated.
Irreni is designed to work within the human evolutionary framework. People cannot comprehend scales of millions and billions, but can hundreds. This MGO concept them will anneal our broken society by correctly focusing peoples attention spans.
Irreni Word Scale puts people in "tribes" of 100 people by way of a 30 person MGO primarily, and a couple of close neighboring  MGOs secondarily.
Irreni refocuses attention primarily on 30 people in the MGO. MGOs will have neighbors, of course, and so the expectation is that each MGO will 2-3 close MGOs for expanding day-to-day resource and service capability. Humans lived for 200,000 years in tribes of 100 people.
Today people see themselves with no control and no voice in local, state and federal government. This is leading to helplessness and despair. Society is broken because immediate relationships like family are broken when we try to fit them within a infinite population model.
The picture in your mind of life in an MGO is this: 90% of one's life is MGO related. This is how one can be the most important person in ones life. One can be important in a group of 30. People need to focus their life to live their life. Being one of millions is not imaginable.
MGOs will have Medical and Dental bays for basic care. Care required beyond the 30 person capability will be realized via healthcare projects MGOs vote on to establish. This same design applies to legal services, engineering services, farming and so on.
Capitalism in Irreni is mostly for entertainment. This is because with 300 million MGOs there will be 300 million currencies. Barter is the primary form of all trade. However, MGOs may participate in fiat currencies for entertainment, tourism and other non-essential things fit for risky currency.
Irreni replaces consumerism with manufacturing on demand. Each MGO has final assembly manufacturing capabilities. Components and resources are stored. Clothing and other simple goods are 3D printed to spec.
Irreni relies primarily on barter. Currency was needed before the Internet as very crude way to assign value of trade. We don't need crude with the Internet, we can assign precise values. When MGOs participate in projects then part of the project contract includes goods and services being bartered.
Irreni has real solutions for climate change because it is a world organizing design. Countries are jealous and competitive. There is no such jealousy and competitiveness with the Irreni design. Every MGO participates in projects they choose.
10% of an MGOs population is expected to participate in projects. Projects can scale from two-or-more to all MGOs. Most of the laws we have today will be replaced by project rules.
MGOs are like spaceships traveling between planets. They must have all the necessities of life: food, shelter, water, electricity, manufacturing for clothing, farms, etc. A self-contained MGO has all the power it needs to survive and thrive. This is power.
The MGO will have a governing constitution of the 30 people by the 30 people. Everyone gets a say in the rules controlling their lives. No more complex Federal, State, and Local governments with 10s of thousands of laws you never heard about.
The MGO resolves this dilemma of making each individual in a population of 9 billion the most important person in their life. The MGO replaces the United States, my country, and all others. The MGO has autonomy and full sovereignty over its people.
The problem we need to solve is everyone needs to be the most important person in their own life. That means people need to focus on their immediate surroundings primarily. The world at large secondarily.
The reason society and politics are stagnate today is neither of them scale to large populations. We are all insignificant in governing bodies with populations of millions. We have corporations larger than countries and pretend they are not as powerful as countries.
Irreni World Scale is a world organizing design. Everyone on planet Earth eventually joins an MGO. There will be 300 million MGOs for a population of 9 billion. The primary reason for 300 million governments instead 200 today is to manage corruption and power. 300 million = very hard to corrupt.
What we call government today is replaced by projects that all MGOs participate in. Projects are voted on using a scale formula of impact on population and land area.
Irreni has two distinct organizing components, the MGO and MGO managing academy. The academy has one power to manage MGO membership. The academy is not a government. Each MGO is self-governed.
Social and Political solutions. I have them. We need to rebuild society and then rebuild government to reflect that society. To start, join and MGO, micro-governing organization. An MGO is a fixed size 30 group of people. 30 because you are needed, but also able to take vacation.