This book is divided into two independent sections where each chapter has the section included:

1. Overview
2. Handbook

Irreni Society is new. It is a Mesh Democracy design as opposed to a Republic. The Overview section gives insight and intuition as to the why and motivation of Mesh Democracy. However, if one is at their wits end with current Democracy and ready to just dig in then jump to the Handbook section.

The Overview section is in a schematic or sketch format. There are no citations. Partly due to the fact that I'm lazy. I've been working on Irreni since 1980 and haven't kept any notes except my own thoughts. Citations will have to be the effort of other people when the time comes. This is one reason the Overview section addresses just why and motivation. This book then fits within the tradition of Thomas Payne's, "The Rights of Man". Discussing the academic reasons for why and motivation doesn't need to be precise with citations. The objective of the Overview section is to scratch an itch. That itch is curiosity for answers:

1. What is Mesh Democracy?
2. How does it compare to current Democracy?

The Handbook section is what one would expect, how to do this-and-that. Irreni Society is a social engineering project. It is not an ideology project.  As engineering then various parts and pieces can be used independent of the whole. Even if one disagrees with much of the design and engineering of Irreni, then one can still create something new and better using various parts one finds agreeable.

My first handbook was a book of Math tables. I'm old enough to have used slide rulers. However, slide rules were not stand-alone technology. Math handbooks with tables of precalculated commonly used numbers existed long before the slide rule. I used this until Sophomore year in high school. Then I bought a scientific calculator from HP.

My next handbook was, "The Runner's Handbook". This book still exists and has advice for day-to-day training, marathon training, common injuries, and so on.

The Handbook section is in the spirit of these kinds of handbooks but not in body. The  Handbook section is a handbook of quests with suggestions on going about them. You are adventurer going on a quest. One is going on a quest like with Frodo taking the ring to Mount Doom. The initial quest is to find fellow adventurers needed, thirty people to form an Mesh Governing Organization, or MGO. The MGO is the mesh node in Mesh Democracy. How one accomplishes the quest is up to the adventurer where suggestions are given. The Handbook continues assigning finer grained quests with suggestions. The quests are all in support of establishing the MGO.

The Handbook section omits projects. Projects are how two-or-more MGOs coordinate to engineer projects greater than the capabilities of a single MGO. If one is curious about projects there are explanations in the Overview section.

Projects are not included in the Handbook section because forming an MGO will take years. Currently real estate is built as single-family dwellings or apartments. We need new real estate built for thirty people. Further the campus needs new buildings such as a medical bay, dental bay, stores for a year's supply of food and water, and manufacturing. These campuses do not exist today. Therefore the initial generation will focus on getting MGO campuses off the ground.

The two sections combined give an introduction to New Democracy as both reasoning and action. The book chapters are designed to be self contained with minimal dependency on each other. New Democracy is not an ideology with concepts that fits together like a jigsaw puzzle to create a picture. New Democracy is social engineering better represented as an automobile. An automobile has engineering parts such as the wheel that date back to pre-historic years. An automobile can also have engineering from today that is still being developed such as self-driving. An automobile is not an ideology. It is made up of many pieces of engineering to provide function. New Democracy is made up of many pieces of engineering to provide function.

New Democracy as engineering means that it can be broken down and re-assembled into something different. What matters is how New Democracy performs as engineering.

This is why the Handbook sections are quests and not specific recipes. New Democracy is designed for everyone on Earth to be apart of the same organization. New Democracy supports ten-billion people. Different places on Earth are going to require different automobile designs.

New Democracy is not a legal system. A legal system springs from an ideology such as justice. New Democracy as engineering springs from function. New Democracy depends on the Internet. New Democracy also depends on voting. New Democracy does not depend on any one set of functions to be New Democracy. That's what defines ideology. 

The best way to approach New Democracy and this book is like your favorite food buffet. There are lots of plates to choose from and it takes many, many trips back to the restaurant to sample all the dishes. New Democracy is the best kind of buffet where new dishes are created every time one visits.

Old Democracy is founded on ideology. New Democracy is founded on engineering. Just that fact alone means that grasping the concepts will take everyone a hot minute to adjust their thinking. So, best to read this book as parts rather than in one go. Or multiple goes rather than one go.

And finally, enjoy!


