Mybrid, 


Thanks for sharing New Democracy! I am very interested in bold new designs for the human future and so the kind of thinking you show here is very much my sort of thing. It’s a fascinating system and it comes across how much time you have put into thinking through possible resolutions to social problems. 


I would make two broad comments in critiquing your work here. The first is that in the introduction, I think you could stand to spell out why this new framework is so necessary. You leap immediately to solutions, but you could explain what problems motivated you to work out this framework. What is it that was so wrong with the old democracy that requires this new one? You will open readers up to entertaining your ideas if you show why the existing ideas aren’t working. In this respect you have the opposite problem to what many writers have. Many writers will critique existing ideas but they won’t propose alternatives. You have a very well-worked-out alternative to propose, but we haven’t heard enough about why it’s necessary to pursue something so transformative.


I would also say that your list, while comprehensive, has the capacity to overwhelm readers. You are introducing a complex framework. Readers will not be used to it. I suspect they may get lost, because it’s just a lot of information very quickly in a short span. I have suggested perhaps organizing the 20 points into broader macro-categories, maybe four or five headings. And save a lot of explanation for the subsequent chapters. Right now in the introduction you want to give them the very broad overview of the material you’ll be explaining the workings of over the course of the book. If you rush the explanation people will feel confused. So, for instance, I just don’t know that you need to explain in the intro list how tyrannical meshes are dealt with. That’s a kind of sub-question that can be dealt with in the relevant chapter. In the intro, you just want people to come away with a very general-level understanding of your framework and why it is necessary. So my broad proposal would be to spend more time making the case for why the New Democracy elements are important, and less time in the introduction guiding us through exactly how they work.


Thank you for letting me read this intellectually exciting piece of work!


Nathan 
